
Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To remove all limitations, you can use Free Temporary License https://products.aspose.com/words/temporary-license/
2019 IEEE/ACM 41st International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)
Scalable Approaches for Test Suite Reduction
Emilio Cruciani∗, Breno Miranda†§, Roberto Verdecchia∗‡, and Antonia Bertolino§
∗Gran Sasso Science Institute | L’Aquila, Italy
†Federal University of Pernambuco | Recife, Brazil
‡Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam | Amsterdam, The Netherlands
§ISTI – Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche | Pisa, Italy
∗emilio.cruciani@gssi.it | †bafm@cin.ufpe.br | ‡roberto.verdecchia@gssi.it | §antonia.bertolino@isti.cnr.it

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

Abstract—Test suite reduction approaches aim at decreasing software regression testing costs by selecting a representative subset from large-size test suites. Most existing techniques are too expensive for handling modern massive systems and moreover depend on artifacts, such as code coverage metrics or specification models, that are not commonly available at large scale. We present a family of novel very efficient approaches for similarity- based test suite reduction that apply algorithms borrowed from
the big data domain together with smart heuristics for finding
an evenly spread subset of test cases. The approaches are very general since they only use as input the test cases themselves (test source code or command line input). We evaluate four approaches
in a version that selects a fixed budget B of test cases, and also in an adequate version that does the reduction guaranteeing some fixed coverage. The results show that the approaches yield a fault detection loss comparable to state-of-the-art techniques, while providing huge gains in terms of efficiency. When applied to a suite of more than 500K real world test cases, the most efficient of the four approaches could select B test cases (for varying B values) in less than 10 seconds.
Index Terms—Clustering, Random projection, Similarity- based testing, Software testing, Test suite reduction.
I. INTRODUCTION
In recent years testing has consistently been the most ac- tively investigated topic of main software engineering confer- ences [6]. One prominent problem in software testing research can be abstracted as: Given a software S and an associated test suite T, how can we efficientlyverify whether S passes on T, or -if not- identify the failing test cases? In this formulation, the emphasis is on the term “efficiently”: Otherwise, the easy solution would be to just execute S on T. The research targets the common practical case that along the development process S needs to be repeatedly tested on T (see, e.g., [15]) and the plain retest-all strategy may be too costly considering the available resources (e.g., time).
To address the above question, in the last three decades many techniques have been proposed, which can be roughly divided in two groups: those that aim at reordering the test cases in T so that those more likely to fail are executed first (test case prioritization), and those that select a subset T ⊆ T that should ideally include the failing test cases, if any; the latter group of techniques is referred to as test case selection or test suite reduction,1 depending on whether when choosing
1Some authors use the term minimization in place of reduction when the not selected test cases are permanently removed from the test suite. Here, in line with [34], we will consider the two terms as interchangeable.
1558-1225/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICSE.2019.00055
T the changes made to S are considered (modification-aware regression testing) or not [34].
The proposed techniques have been evaluated and compared against each other using metrics relative to their fault detection effectiveness (e.g., the Average Percentage of Fault Detection of the reordered test suite, or the loss in faults detected by the reduced test suite T ); for test reduction and selection, also metrics relative to cost savings, e.g., the size or the execution time of T are compared against those of the full suite T.
Another important factor that should be taken into account is the cost of the technique itself, both in terms of the compu- tational effort and of the resources it requires. In other words, when evaluating whether investing on an automated approach aimed at reducing the cost of testing is worth, a complete cost- benefit analysis should also include the overheads implied by the approach [18].
However, not many of the proposed techniques have consid- ered such implied costs. In 2004, Orso and coauthors already noticed that in regression testing efficiency and precision need to be traded off, because “precise techniques are generally too expensive to be used on large systems” [29]. Gligoric and coauthors [16] were the first to observe that the time consumed by any regression test technique should include an analysis phase, an execution phase, and a collection phase. They noticed that most authors only considered the savings in execution, a few measured also the analysis time, but no one before them measured also the last phase in which the information needed to apply the technique is collected. As pointed out by Elbaum and coauthors [15], at scale industries need approaches “that are relatively inexpensive and do not rely on code coverage information”. In fact, for white-box techniques, the cost of collecting and saving up-to-date code coverage information should also be considered as part of the collection phase. This is confirmed by Herzig [19], who observes that code coverage is not for free as assumed in many works, and can cause up to 30% of time overhead!
In a recent work [28], we addressed the prioritization of very large test suites and showed that as the size of the test suite grows, most existing approaches become soon not applicable. That work proposed the FAST family of similarity-based test prioritization approaches that outperformed in efficiency and scalability all the compared approaches, except for the white- box greedy total approach. If we count the often ignored
419

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

costs of measuring coverage, then FAST appears as the only scalable prioritization approach.
This paper introduces a family of scalable approaches for test suite reduction, called the FAST-R family. As in [28], FAST-R approaches are similarity-based and borrow tech- niques from the big data domain. However, with respect to [28] we apply here several new techniques that allow us to achieve even more efficient results. In FAST we used minhashing and locality-sensitive hashing algorithms [25]. FAST-R approaches adopt other efficient heuristics that are used to derive a set of B evenly spread points in a big data space. Precisely, one approach called FAST++ applies the k-means++ algorithm [4], while another one called FAST-CS uses a recent importance sampling algorithm to construct coresets, a clustering technique that scales up to massive datasets [5]. Moreover, we further enhance the scalability of both approaches by applying the random projection technique, that reduces the space dimensionality while preserving the pairwise distances of the points [21].
FAST++ and FAST-CS are extremely “practical” techniques in the sense required by all of [15], [16], [19], [28]: i) thanks to the heuristics imported from the big data domain they are computationally very efficient; ii) to reduce a test suite T they require no other information beyond T itself.
Based on the applied algorithms, the most natural scenario for FAST++ and FAST-CS is that of finding a fixed budget B of test cases. This is referred in literature as inadequate test suite reduction. In the paper we also show how they can be adapted to perform adequate reduction, i.e., preserving coverage: We apply a filtering strategy and search for the most dissimilar test cases only among the ones that cover not yet covered elements. However we acknowledge that at large scale such adequate scenario is not realistic, because as already said coverage information cannot be assumed.
Although originally proposed for prioritization, we note that FAST approaches [28] could be easily adapted for test reduc- tion: Instead of ordering the whole test suite, the algorithm is stopped when the budget B (or the desired coverage) is reached. Accordingly, we also include in FAST-R and evaluate the reduction version of FAST-pw and FAST-all (the most precise and the most efficient of the FAST family).
Summarizing, this paper proposes four test suite reduction approaches (two original ones and two adapted from [28]) that can be applied in two testing scenarios: under a fixed budget or for adequate test suite reduction.
We evaluated the four proposed approaches on commonly used C and Java benchmark programs against state-of-the- art reduction techniques, obtaining comparable results for effectiveness but notable improvements in efficiency. More interestingly, to validate our claims on the scalability of the approaches, we applied all four of them to the budget reduction of a test suite formed by more than 500K Java test cases collected from GitHub. At such large scale, not considering the preparation time, FAST-pw and FAST++ required several hours to reduce the suite, e.g., ∼37 hours and ∼11 hours respectively for a 10% size, but FAST-all required 25 seconds
and FAST-CS 9 seconds. Actually, FAST-CS looks as a real breakthrough as it took less than 10 seconds for the reduction independently from the percentage, and needed just 5 minutes for preparation in contrast to more than 3 hours taken by FAST-all.
The original contributions of this work include:
• The FAST-R family of scalable approaches for inade- quate test suite reduction.
• A variant of all the approaches for adequate test suite reduction.
• A large-scale experimentation for evaluating the effi- ciency and effectiveness of the approaches in three sce- narios, including a very large-scale test suite.
• An open-source automated framework along with all the data used for the experiments to support verifiability.
The paper is structured as follows. In the next section we survey related work. In Section III we present the approaches used. In Section IV and V, respectively, we present the evalua- tion methodology and the achieved results. Finally, Section VI draws conclusions and hints at future work.
II. RELATED WORK
This work is related to software regression testing and more specifically to test suite reduction techniques. The literature on software regression testing is huge: Two surveys [13], [35] provide a broad overview of prioritization, reduction (or minimization, used here in interchangeable way), and selection techniques. In particular, Yoo and Harman [35] reviewed the literature until 2009. Concerning reduction techniques, most of the surveyed works consists of heuristics over white-box coverage criteria, at various level of granularity (including statement, branch, function, or call-stack). Some approaches augment the coverage information with additional inputs by the tester (e.g., weighting coefficients or priority assignments), which may be costly or even biased [35]. Among the few “interesting exceptions” doing black-box reduction, they report some combinatorial, fault-based, and model-based techniques. More recently, Do [13] surveys further advances over [35]. In particular, for test suite reduction she reviews four more recent techniques, two of which are again coverage-based, and two ones introduce specific reduction techniques: one for GUI testing [3], and another for combinatorial interaction testing [7]. Note that both surveys [13], [35] include no work on similarity-based test suite reduction, as we propose here.
A recent systematic survey by Rehman and coauthors [23] focuses specifically on test suite reduction. The study sur- veyed the literature between 1990 and 2016, identifying a set of 113 relevant primary studies. Based on the adopted algorithms, they classify the approaches into: Greedy (mostly coverage-based), Clustering, and Search-based, plus hybrid combinations thereof. Our approach would fitin the Clustering group, in which out of the surveyed 113 studies they only find three works: one [8] using machine learning algorithms, and two [27], [33] using hierarchical clustering.
We take here a distance from most of the techniques surveyed in the above studies, since FAST-R is expressly
motivated by considerations of scalability and practical ap- plicability. In this perspective, our approach is more closely related to few recent works based on coarse-grained heuristics, clustering, and similarity.
In recent years some collaborative efforts between academic and industrial researchers start to appear that develop coarse- grained approaches trading precision with efficiency/scalabil- ity. Strictly speaking such works focus on test case selec- tion and not test suite reduction, in that the choice of tests to execute is modification-aware. For example, Knauss and coauthors [24] use a statistical model that relates the changed code fragments (or churns) with test outcomes on Ericsson systems; considering a continuous integration development environment, Elbaum and coauthors [15] propose a strategy apt for Google testing process, which combines test case selection during pre-submit testing and test case prioritization in post-submit testing. Both selection and prioritization apply heuristics based on failure history and execution windows. By relying on very efficient algorithms, our FAST-R approaches can scale up to large industrial systems as the above works, while not sacrificing much of precision in deriving a represen- tative subset of the test cases.
Our similarity-based approach is related to several tech- niques that exploit the diversity among test cases for guiding selection. Some techniques build on the notion of adaptive random testing (ART) [10] that, in a few words, first selects a random set of test cases and then filters them based on their distance from the already selected test cases. Several variants instantiations of ART have been proposed, including ART-D [20] and ART-F [36] that we use as competitors to FAST-R and that are further described in Section IV.
Some black-box approaches use similarity to reduce model- based test suites. Both test case reduction [2] and test case selection [9], [17] techniques have been proposed. These techniques have been conceived for industrial use: For example Hemmati and coauthors [17] pursue as a main goal a selection of test cases adjusted to the available testing budget. However, all such model-based approaches rely on the assumption that a formal model of program behavior, e.g., a LTS, is available. In contrast, FAST-R does not need to assume anything else beyond the test cases themselves.
A few works have proposed to leverage clustering of test cases as we do here, e.g., [11], [30]. However they calculate the similarity between two test cases based on code coverage information, which as said already could be too expensive at
the testing scale we aim.
III. THE APPROACHES
Given a test suite T and some fixed budget B ≤ | T|, the goal of similarity-based test suite reduction is to select B evenly spread test cases out of the test suite. If we model each test case as a point in some D-dimensional space, then the problem could be thought of as that of finding the central points of B clusters. The problem of clustering is NP -hard, but we are able to perform scalable similarity-based test suite
1. Test Suite 3. Random Projection
t1: grep -e 'foo' file t1 t2: grep -v -e 'foo' file
t2 t3: grep -F 'bar' file 
t3
Comp1Comp2Comp3
2. Vector Space Model (Term Frequency)
t1 t2
t3
grep  -e -v -F 'foo''bar' file
Fig. 1: Visual representation of FAST-R preparation phase.
reduction by borrowing a technique from the big data domain and using it in combination with some efficient heuristics.
We consider an Euclidean space, a metric space where the distance between any two points is expressed by the Euclidean distance – what one could think of as the straight line connect- ing them. Let x, y ∈RD be two points; the Euclidean distance
between them is defined as d(x, y) = i=1 (x i − yi )2.
D
In the preparation phase of our approaches (Fig. 1) we transform test cases into points in the Euclidean space via the vector-space model: The textual representation of each test case, e.g., test source code or command line input (Fig. 1.1), is mapped into an n-dimensional point where each dimension corresponds to a different term of the source code and n is equal to the total number of terms used in the whole test suite. The components are weighted according to term-frequency scheme, i.e., the weights are equal to the frequency of the corresponding terms (Fig. 1.2).
The computation of the Euclidean distance between any two n-dimensional points can be expensive when n is large. To overcome this problem we exploit a dimensionality reduc- tion technique called random projection. Roughly speaking, random projection works because of Johnson-Lindenstrauss Lemma [21], which states that a set of points in a high- dimensional space can be projected into a much lower- dimensional space in a way that pairwise distances are nearly preserved. In particular we use sparse random projection [1], [26], an efficient implementation of the technique that is suitable for database applications (Fig. 1.3).
We model the clustering problem as a k-means problem, with k = B. Given n points in a metric space, the goal of k- means is to find a k-partition P = {P1,...,P k} of the points that minimizes the sum of the squared Euclidean distances between each point to its closest center of one partition. Formally, the goal is to find argmin k d(x, μ )2,
i
P i=1 x ∈P i
where μ i is the center of the points belonging to partition Pi.
There exist efficient techniques that are able to find an approximate solution to k-means. One is k-means++ [4],
Algorithm 1 FAST++
Input: Test Suite T; Budget B
Output: Reduced Test Suite R
1: P ← RandomProjection(T )  Preparation phase 2: s ← FirstSelection(P )
3: R ← List(s)
4: D ← Distance()  Squared distance to closest point in R 5: D(s) ← 0
6: while (Size(R) < B) do
8: for ifalld tP∈(Pt),doP (s) 2 < D (t) then
7:
9: D(t) ← d P (t),P (s) 2  Squared Euclidean distance 10: s ← ProportionalSample( P,D)
11: R ← Append(R,s )
12: D(s) ← 0
13: return R
which achieves an O(log k) approximation ratio2 in expec- tation and finds the centers of the clusters in k linear time iterations. The algorithm is the de facto standard technique for the initialization phase of k-means algorithms. After the initial centers are selected, standard k-means algorithms would iteratively compute the clusters. In our case, to be more efficient, we stop at this stage and use the k selected centers as the test cases of the reduced test suite. The reduction approach that exploits k-means++ as greedy reduction strategy is called FAST++ (Algorithm 1).
FAST++ starts by preprocessing the test suite T, mapping each test case into a vector according to the vector-space model and then lowering its dimensionality via random projection (Line 1). After the preparation phase, the reduction algorithm works only on the projected data P on which the greedy selection of k-means++ is applied. First, pick the first point uniformly at random3 (Line 2). Then, until B points have not been selected: i) for each projected point t ∈P , compute the squared distance d(t,R)2 between t and its nearest center in R that has been already picked (Lines 7, 8, 9); this can be done incrementally by maintaining the minimum distance and computing only the distance with the last selected point (Lines 8, 9); ii) pick next point s with probability proportional to its distance to R (Line 10).
Another possible approach to simplify the clustering prob- lem is that of using coresets. Given a set of points S, a coreset is a small subset of S that well approximates the geometric features of S. One usually constructs a coreset first and then finds the centers of the clusters on it, reducing the complexity of the problem while still having theoretical guarantees on the solution. In our case, though, the size of the reduction grows linearly with the size of the test suite making this standard approach less efficient – the complexity of the problem would not lower much. Instead, exploiting a recent extremely efficient algorithm developed for massive datasets [5], we construct a coreset of size B and use it as reduced test suite. The algorithm is based on importance sampling: All points have nonzero
2In a minimization problem, an α-approximation algorithm finds a solution which is not worse than α times the optimum.
3Note that this is to stick with k-means++ algorithm, but any other criterion for the choice of the first test case is possible.
Algorithm 2 FAST-CS
Input: Test Suite T; Budget B
Output: Reduced Test Suite R
1: P ← RandomProjection(T )  Preparation phase 2: μ ← Mean(P )
3: for all t ∈ P do
1 d P (t), μ 2
4: Q(t) ← +  Importance sampling
2|T | t ∈P d P (t ), μ 2
5: R ← ProportionalSampleWithoutReplacement( P,Q,B )
6: return R
probability of being sampled, but points that are far from the center of the dataset (potentially good centers for a clustering) are sampled with higher probability. We call the reduction approach that use this technique FAST-CS (Algorithm 2).
FAST-CS starts with the preparation phase to compute the set of projected points P (Line 1). Then, it only requires two full passes on P : First it computes the mean of the data points (Line 2) and then it uses it to compute the importance sampling distribution (Lines 3, 4). The probability of each point to be sampled is a linear combination of the uniform distribution (first term in Line 4) and of the distribution which is proportional to the squared Euclidean distance between the data point and the mean of the data (second term in Line 4). Then B points are sampled out of P without replacement with probability proportional to their importance sampling probability (Line 5) and used as reduced test suite.
Both FAST++ and FAST-CS have also been adapted to be adequate, i.e., to perform a reduction that guarantees some fixed coverage. 4 Getting coverage information of each test case as an extra input, both the proposed approaches are able to reduce the test suite such that some fixed coverage is achieved. This is possible thanks to a filteringphase. In FAST++, all test cases which would not add any extra coverage are filtered out after each selection and the next selection is carried out only among the remaining ones. As for FAST-CS, log|T| test cases are picked at each subsequent iteration and then importance sampling probabilities are recomputed setting to 0 the ones relative to test cases which are filtered out. Picking log|T| tests per iteration instead of just one makes the algorithm scale better to big test suites. Moreover, this choice does not increase the size of the reduced test suite since the selected test cases are still diverse among them and thus the chance of covering different parts of the software under test is still high. Finally, instead of stopping when the reduction reaches size B, both adequate approaches stop whenever the reduction achieves some fixed coverage.
As said, this work was inspired by the FAST family of test case prioritization approaches [28]: Roughly speaking, those approaches could be also used for the goal of test suite reduction by only picking the first B test cases of the prioritized test suite. To assess also their efficiency and effectiveness when applied to test suite reduction, we modified
4The pseudocodes of adequate versions are not reported for lack of space, but they can be found online [12].
all the original algorithms to stop after B test cases are prioritized. Moreover we adapted them to be adequate as well, again using the same filtering phase introduced in FAST++ and FAST-CS.
IV. EVALUATION METHODOLOGY AND SETUP
We conducted some experiments to evaluate the effective- ness and the efficiency of the proposed approaches in different application scenarios. As a first scenario we considered the case in which test resources are limited and a tester can only run a small subset of test cases from an existing test suite: We call this the budget scenario, because we fix a priori a reduction percentage of test suite size. In this scenario we can apply the natural version of the proposed approaches. As a second case we considered adequate scenario, in which the code coverage measures of the whole test suite are preserved. To study this scenario, we applied the adequate version of the approaches. We also studied a third case, called the large- scale scenario, in which we apply the inadequate reduction on a very large test suite.
A. Research Questions
We address the following research questions (RQs):
RQ1: How effective are the proposed test suite reduction ap- proaches in comparison with state-of-the-art techniques?
The goal of test suite reduction is to reduce the size of a test suite while maintaining its fault detection effectiveness. Thus the effectiveness of reduction approaches is commonly measured in terms of the Fault Detection Loss (FDL), and for adequate approaches also in terms of Test Suite Reduction (TSR). Consequently we articulate the above RQ1 into the two following subquestions:
RQ1.1: [FDL] What is the fault detection loss of the pro-
posed approaches compared with that of state-of-the-art techniques?
To answer RQ1.1 we measure: FDL = |F |−|F | , where F is
|F |
the set of faults detected by T and F is the set of faults detected by T .
RQ1.2: [TSR] What is the test suite reduction achieved by
the proposed approaches compared with that of state-of- the-art techniques?
To answer RQ1.2 we measure: TSR = |T |−|T| |T | .
We answer RQ1.1 in both budget and adequate scenarios, and RQ1.2 only in the adequate scenario.
To evaluate the efficiency we address the following RQ:
RQ2: How much time is taken by the proposed approaches
to produce the reduced test suite?
We measure the time spent in preparation and in reduction. We answer RQ2 in all the three scenarios: In the budget and adequate scenarios we compare the time taken by the proposed approaches against state-of-the-art competitors; in the large- scale scenario we could only apply our proposed techniques, as all competitors approaches require coverage information that at such scales are not available.
B. Compared reduction approaches
We recall that the FAST-R family of proposed approaches consists of the newly devised FAST++ and FAST-CS plus the modified reduction versions of FAST-pw and FAST-all, first introduced for prioritization [28].
The competitor approaches we consider are ART-D [20] and ART-F [36], which belong to the family of Adaptive Random Testing techniques [10]. In brief, they both work by first deriving a candidate set of test cases from those not yet selected that would increase coverage, and then selecting from within the candidate set the most distant test case from those already selected. The two techniques differ on the candidate set size (Dynamically changing in ART-D and Fixed in ART-F) and on the adopted distance metric (Jaccard and Mahattan, respectively). We selected these approaches because they also aim at obtaining an evenly spread set of test cases as in our approaches, and also because in the results reported in [28] they were among the best competitors to FAST. Differently from FAST-R, ART-D and ART-F use coverage measures.
Finally, we also applied the GA (Greedy Additional) ap- proach [31], which for its simplicity and effectiveness is often considered as a baseline. GA selects the test case that covers the highest number of yet uncovered elements.
For all three competitors we consider three variants, applied to coverage of function, statement, and branch.
C. Experiment material
To evaluate the budget scenario and the adequate scenario we took 5 C and 5 Java programs as experimental subjects. The C programs (consisting of Flex v3, Grep v3, Gzip v1, Sed v6, and Make v1) were gathered from the Software In- frastructure Repository (SIR) [14]. For each of these programs subsequent versions are available, each containing a varying number of seeded faults. In our experiment we considered for each program the version containing the highest number of difficult to reveal faults, i.e., faults that are discovered by less than 50% of the test cases. This was done to avoid including in the experiment “anomalous” versions, e.g., versions in which most faults are revealed by the majority of the test cases or no faults are revealed at all. In total, the C subjects amounted to 52,757 LoC containing 49 faults, and were accompanied by a test suite comprising 2,938 test methods.
The 5 Java programs taken into account (namely Closure Compiler, Commons Lang, Commons Math, JfreeChart, and Joda-Time) were taken from the Defects4J database [22]. Such database provides a set of programs available in different versions, each containing a single real fault. For our exper- iment, we considered the first version of the programs. In total, the Java Subjects amounted to 320,990 LoC and were accompanied by a test suite comprising 1198 test classes.
To evaluate the large-scale scenario, we used a set of more than 500K real-world test cases gathered through the GitHub hosting-service. To efficiently collect a high number of heterogeneous test cases, we selected classes committed to the master branches of the available Java repositories, precisely commits adding a single class which adheres to common
naming conventions for JUnit classes. In total through this process we collected 514,272 test cases, amounting to roughly 39 million LoC for a total size of 14 GB.
D. Experiment procedure
The experiment was performed on an AMD Opteron™ 6376 with 2.3GHz CPU, 16MB L2 cache, 64GB RAM, running Ubuntu 16.04.5 LTS. The procedure varied according to the scenario considered. More specifically:
1) Budget scenario: We fixed a set of budgets B for
each experimental subject (both C and Java). The budgets considered ranged between 1% and 30% of the total test suite size of each subject with a step increase of 1%. While the FAST-R approaches only required the test suite for the reduc- tion process, all competitors could take in input 3 different coverage types, namely function, statement, and branch. We therefore performed a single study for the FAST-R approaches and 3 for each of the competitors. We used each compared approach to reduce the test suite of the experimental subjects by considering all B budgets. The metrics considered were fault detection loss, preparation time, and reduction time. The measurements were repeated 50 times for each study given the stochastic nature of the approaches.
2) Adequate scenario: The FAST-R approaches require
coverage information for the filtering phase as an extra input to have an adequate reduction. The competitor approaches instead require exclusively the coverage information. For this scenario we considered function, statement, and branch cov- erage. We used the compared approaches to reduce the test suite of each experimental subject (both C and Java) so to maintain the coverage prior of the reduction. We measured fault detection loss, test suite reduction, preparation time, and reduction time. The measurements were repeated 50 times for each study given the stochastic nature of the approaches.
3) Large-scale scenario: As for the budget-scenario, we
considered a set of budgets B ranging from 1% to 30% of total test suite size of the subjects, with a step increase of 1%. In this setting we exclusively evaluated FAST-R approaches, as the other approaches require coverage information, which in this scenario is not available. To answer RQ2, we applied the approaches to the GitHub dataset for each possible reduction of B, and measured preparation time and reduction time.
V. RESULTS
In this section we report and discuss the results. Note that with the aim of supporting independent verification and replication, we make available the artifacts produced as part of this work [12]. The replication package includes approaches, input data, statistical analyses, and additional results.
A. The budget scenario
1) Fault Detection Loss: The box plots of Figure 2 display
the FDL of the compared approaches and more details are provided in Table I. The results are grouped by programming language because the C and Java programs investigated contain different types of faults (see Section IV-C). The approaches
c
100 75 50 25 0
●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●●This document was truncated here because it was created in the Evaluation Mode.
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
425
