114  Telfor Journal, Vol. 11, No. 2, 2019. 
Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To remove all limitations, you can use Free Temporary License https://products.aspose.com/words/temporary-license/
Quality Assurance in Big Data Analytics: An IoT Perspective 
Nicole Ann Fernandes and Rupali Wagh 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
115  Telfor Journal, Vol. 11, No. 2, 2019. 
Abstract  —Emergence  of  IoT  as  one  of  the  key  data contributors in a big data application has presented new data quality challenges and has necessitated for an IoT inclusive data  validation  ecosystem.  Standardized  data  quality approaches and frameworks are available for data obtained for a variety of sources like data warehouses, webblogs, social media, etc. in a big data application. Since IoT data differs significantly  from  other  data,  challenges  in  ensuring  the quality  of  this data  are  also different  and  thus  a  specially designed IoT data testing layer paves its way in. In this paper, we present a detailed review of existing data quality assurance practices  used  in  big  data  applications.  We  highlight  the requirement for IoT data quality assurance in the existing framework and propose an additional data testing layer for IoT. The data quality aspects and possible implementation models for quality assurance contained in the proposed layer can be used to construct a concrete set of guidelines for IoT data quality assurance. 
Keywords  —  Big  Data,  Internet  of  Things  (IoT),  Data Quality, Data Testing, IoT data Validation, Quality of Service (QoS). 
I. INTRODUCTION
IOdaTyolirvienst ebrunteatlsoof  rthevinoglus thioansizneodt  othnel ye ncthiraencgoemd pouutri ndga ya ntod analytics paradigm. Today IoT is the key contributor in 
making  informed  decisions  across  domains.  With  these connected  devices  generating  enormous  data,  seamless integration of this data in a big data application for further analytics is the need of the hour. Since quality data is the backbone of any analytical solution, ensuring the quality of big data is a fundamental task in big data testing. Since the poor  data  quality  may  produce  inaccurate  results,  a comprehensive  data  quality  assurance  framework  is followed for big data testing [1]. The famous V’s of big data – volume, variety, velocity, and veracity bring complexities with them. This has been the reason for the inclusion of rigorous  data  quality  check  which  otherwise  was  not required in a traditional system [2] data testing. 
Paper received October 30, 2018; revised April 4, 2019; accepted May 04, 2019. Date of publication December 25, 2019. The associate editor coordinating the review of this manuscript and approving it for publication was Prof. Miroslav Lutovac. 
Nicole Ann Fernandes is a postgraduate student, Department of Computer Science, CHRIST (Deemed to be University), Bengaluru, India (e-mail: fernandes.ann@mca.christuniversity.in). 
Rupali  Wagh  is  Associate  Professor  with  the  Department  of Computer Science , CHRIST (Deemed to be University), Bengaluru, India (e-mail: rupali.wagh@christuniversity.in). 
In the last decade, we have witnessed the dominance of IoT and today IoT has become a major contributor in the big  data  application  environment.  It  brings  newer complexities in the big data ecosystem. Vastly different sensors from a huge network of connected devices produce data which require careful and systematic preprocessing before actually being fed for analytics. While the wear and tear  of  the  devices/sensors,  faulty  devices,  etc  require actions which may be extrinsic to the computing life cycle, but  identification  of  these  issues  needs  to  be  done intrinsically by analyzing the captured data. IoT is further challenged by security concerns and network issues as they directly impact the reliability and accuracy of data. Thus, the  data  validation  for  IoT  data  goes  beyond  just  data cleaning, aggregation and transformation, and shifts more towards intelligent and machine learning based methods in data  testing  like  ontologies  for  data  abstraction  and predictive methods for threat prediction. Since IoT based big data analytics is becoming more and more prevalent, the data  quality  issues  are  becoming  very  significant. Additionally,  IoT  analytics  due  to  its  ubiquitous  nature impacts human life largely and hence ensuring the quality of IoT data has become very critical. 
In this paper, we discuss major data quality challenges specifically with respect to IoT data. We also elaborate the implementation models used to assure the quality of IoT data and propose an additional IoT data validation layer, which can act as a basis for constructing an IoT inclusive data  quality  assurance  framework  for  any  big  data application. 
The paper is organized as follows- Section II elaborates a generic big data test framework, section III emphasizes the dominance of IoT data in today’s big data applications. Section IV presents data quality challenges with respect to IoT data and various implementation models and methods required for IoT data quality assurance. Section V proposes an additional layer in Big data-IoT framework 
II. BIG DATA TEST FRAMEWORK
The  variety  and  volume  of  data  have  become  a challenging  aspect  to  databases.  With  unstructured, structured,  semi-structured  data  being  produced  every second,  data  testing  is  extremely  complex.  The  4  V’s Volume, velocity, variety, and veracity of big data demand the unorthodox form of information that enables magnified insight,  decision-making.  Big  data  testing  is  absolutely dissimilar  from  general  testing  scenarios  as  it  involves processing huge data quickly for a business to make better decisions. The primary goal of big data testing is cleaning, masking, monitoring big data but none of these deals with 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Fernandes and Wagh: Quality Assurance in Big Data Analytics: An IoT Perspective  116 
data validation in a big data framework which lacks the quality of data. Big data testing is verifying data to ensure data  transformation,  data  quality,  and  automate  the regression testing. 
Validation of structured and unstructured data in a test environment increases cost and time. Big data testing is based on Extract, Transform and Load (ETL). In the Extract phase test data is uprooted from various sources, traditional databases  like  relational  database  management  system (RDBMS), the test data and process are verified and in the transformation phase, once the transformation is successful, it is either sent to the data warehouse or deleted. Quality is a major issue and requires a peculiar infrastructure [2]. Data warehouse staging area is a short-term location where data from  all  sources  are  recorded.  Since  data  cannot  be extracted directly from all databases at the time, therefore, data in the data warehouse is momentary 
Quality Assurance (QA) defines whether a product or service meets the specified requirements. Fig. 1 describes various parameters that could cause tangible and intangible losses  to  an  organization  due  to  poor  data  quality. Unreliable  data  leads  to  wastage  of  resources,  business revenues, decisions, productivity, and prevents data from being  shared  in  an  organization.  Meeting  customer requirements is far beyond the reach if data is not validated and accurate. Due to unreliable systems, low-quality data collections, unorganized data, connectivity issues, technical faults between sensors lead to business loss. Data is said to be reliable and consistent when data collected and analyzed remains substantial over time. Data quality parameters, data accuracy, data  timeliness,  data  accessibility,  data accountability, data completeness, data scalability, and data security and their significance are discussed in detail in [1], [4]. 

Fig. 1. Data quality concerns in big data environment. 
To  ensure  the  quality  of  data  the  following  big  data quality  services  are  generically  employed  in  a  big  data testing framework [1], [5], [6]. 
· Data collection: Gathering and quantifying information from various sources. 
· Data  cleaning:  Since  data  is  collected  from  various sources  detecting  and  correcting  untrustworthy, inaccurate, corrupt records data is a major role in big data testing which ensures data quality. 
· Data transformation: Process of the transfiguration of dataset from a source data system to the format of a destination data system. 
· Data loading: Once the data is transformed it is loaded into a big data repository such as NoSQL big database and Hadoop domain. 
· Data analytics: Inspection, modeling, and modification of  data  into  reports,  conclusion,  supports  decision- making. 
· Data  aggregation:  The  arrangement  of  data  from  a database to develop datasets for data processing. 
With the high computing requirement and complexities of the processes in the big data testing framework, test as service (TAAS) is gaining popularity in recent years. TAAS is primarily aimed at providing solutions regarding cost, data and packet loss, and scalability issues of IoT devices and  test  semantic  correctness  and  functional  features remotely [2]. TAAS with IoT testing framework rectifies unnecessary  cost,  traditional  software  testing  in  the development of IoT devices, provides real-world testing and reduces strain on internal resources. With emerging Machine  learning  methods  into  software  testing  [3], software, TAAS is becoming more and more relevant [3].  
Existing comprehensive big data quality framework is primarily  centered  around  the  data  coming  from  data warehouses, weblogs and social media. Though IoT is an inseparable  component  of  today’s  big  data  application, Inclusion of IoT focused data validation is not yet seen as a mandatory element in the framework. 
III. IOT KEY CONTRIBUTOR OF DATA IN BIG DATA APPLICATION
IoT enables things to actively participate in sharing data with  other  objects,  communication  over  the  network (wired/wireless), recognizing changes and events in other objects where things/object can react inaccurately.  
The internet of things helps to connect anything with everything. IoT is connected to cellular services like 30% are phones, 23% tablets, and others are machine-to-machine communication.  With  the  advancement  of  high-speed internet  connection  like  Broadband  connectivity, Google fiber which provides high-speed low latency network.
As shown in Fig. 2, it is projected that IoT will grow about  267  billion  in  2020  [7].  IoT  generates  huge information, this information is analyzed, and resets factors based on the emergency. Sensors help to detect motion; a voice call may be sent through the internet or appropriate altars  are  sent  on  devices.  With  the  advancement  of technology  and  the  use  of  sophisticated  sensors,  IoT generated data reduces human efforts and interaction and improves decision analytics. Real Time Data generated by IoT is highly preferred for decision-making because of its high business value. 
IoT generated data is seldom analyzed independently and often exists as one component of the big data analytics ecosystem, Fig. 3. Big data and IoT is used widely across domains to provide diverse solutions. Big data analytics is used to examine huge datasets in order to uncover hidden patterns, customer requirements, market trends, business information, better agriculture planning, reduce the cost of 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
117 
Telfor Journal, Vol. 11, No. 2, 2019. 
medical  systems  and  decision-making.   There  are  few domains where IoT and big data analytics has become the norm  for  the  functioning  of  various  processes.  Health gadgets with various IoT enabled sensors are becoming the backbone  of  patient  monitoring  systems  and  providing phenomenal support to inefficient customer care [8], [9]. IoT devices are being used to monitor and build patient- centric,  remote  consultation,  to  help  critical  conditioned patients [10]. Smart farming includes technologies like IoT, big data, data mining, machine learning techniques, cloud computing which enables farmers to take actions and better- informed decisions on farming practices. Sensors are used on  fields  and  crops  which  provides  data  points  on  soil conditions, detailed information on wind, water availability and  pest  infections  [9].  Sensors  like  SHT10,  SEN0161, Humidity sensor and Obstacle sensor (ultrasonic) are used on  various  hardware  and  software  that  includes  AVR microcontroller atmega 16/32, ZigBee module, Raspberry pi, Dip trace, SinaProg, Raspbian Operating system.  Thus, it is now possible to monitor productivity with just a click of a button. Smart homes technologies include a suit of IoT devices, appliances, or systems that connect into a network and can be controlled. IoT and big data fabricate the use of accommodating  new  devices,  appliance,  and  other technologies. IoT is growing exponentially, Sophisticated sensors and chips are embedded into systems that surround us  in  a  smart  home  environment  which  comprise  of Temperature  sensor,  Voice/Sound  sensors,  an  Air composition  sensor,  Infrared  sensors,  pressure  sensors, Video cameras for surveillance. When an unusual motion takes place, an alert message is sent to the user [11], [12], [13], [14]. 

Fig. 2. Worldwide Diversification of IoT Devices,  as projected by [7]. 
Thus, the amount of data generated by connected devices is tremendously huge. Its assimilation in a big data system is  further  complicated  by  the  variety,  time  dependency, compatibility, and interpretability. 
IV. QUALITY IOT DATA: CHALLENGES
IoT  and  big  data  analytics  has  almost  become omnipresent and also brings data challenges along with it. A Huge number of sensors generating an enormously high volume of diverse data requires a multifaceted data quality assurance approach. In this section, we emphasize three main  characteristics  of  data  which  are  essential  for producing  valid  and  applicable  results  namely  data reliability  and  accuracy,  data  timeliness  and  data 
interpretability. We discuss the challenges in ensuring these qualities  in  IoT  data  and  review  the  state  of  art  of  the solutions provided for them. 

Fig. 3. IoT and Big Data Analytics. 
A. Reliable and Accurate Data – IoT Security 
Security and privacy of data are very crucial to the IoT paradigm. This undoubtedly is the most researched area in the field of IoT, cloud computing and big data because of its  high  impact  on  the  business  value  of  such  systems. Though the solutions to IoT security are based in multiple domains like networks and machine learning, the primary objective is to collect genuine and authentic data. Securing systems  is  based  on  a  few  standard  principles: confidentiality, availability, authentication, integrity. Some devices used in IoT have extremely limited storage, battery power, processing rate are unable to cope with the unique security systems and wireless networks are widely used in IoT devices which could lead to packet loss. Security is a widely  researched  problem  in  IoT  and  main  security concerns are identified as Eavesdropping, Mac spoofing, Dictionary attack, and Man-in-the-middle attack. [14], [11]. While  traditional  solutions  include  encryption  and cryptography,  a  newer  research  direction  based  on  IoE, internet  of  entities  with  blockchain  based  validation mechanisms is being proposed in the research community [15].  In  network  security  for  smart  home,  domain  is proposed  in  [11]  where  communication  rules  for  every device are installed in every home router and are further used to filter malicious traffic. The layered architecture of IoT posed challenges in providing end to end privacy and security. Improved privacy preserving the architecture of IoT as proposed in [16] is the need of the hour which is based on the concept of using multiple cloud data stores for preserving  privacy.  Based  on  this  generic  architecture domain specific architecture for more secure data in IoT is also proposed. Application of machine and deep learning approaches for building robust IoT big data applications [5] are  effectively  used  for  threat  categorization  as  well  as predicting  the  layer  where  the  threats  can  surface  viz, network  services  surface/cloud  service  surface/web application interface, etc. 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Fernandes and Wagh: Quality Assurance in Big Data Analytics: An IoT Perspective  118 
B. Data Timelines – Real-Time Data Analytics Models  a  very  high  velocity.  Recent  paradigms  like  Resource With  heterogeneous  data  coming  continuously  from  Description Framework (RDF) are gaining popularity due 
multiple sources spanning multiple geographic locations,  to the flexibility that they provide in the continuous query it's  difficult  to  separate  valuable  data  from  irrelevant  processing [22]. Application of semantic annotations of IoT information. IoT big data analytics is further challenged by  data in healthcare domain is discussed in [23]. The paper the  need  for  real-time  data  updates  and  its  real-time  shows  semantic  annotations  of  the  heterogeneous  data analytics  due to  the  continuous operational  state  of  IoT  gathered using IoT devices of patients and physicians to devices, thus a “Fog Computing” lightweight computing  transform the data into RDF. This data is then processed by paradigm  becomes  relevant  for  IoT.  Fog  computing  is  SPRARQL (SPARQL Protocol and RDF Query Language) similar  to  cloud  computing  which  provides  temporary  facilitating the interoperability across devices. The concept storage,  services,  and  application  which  provides  a  of interoperability is very much relevant in all the domains promising solution for big data applications and IoT. Fog  of  IoT  and  requires  standardized  data  representation computing  is  an  intermediate  layer  between  cloud  formats. These formats essentially describe data as linked computing  and  data  generated  from  various  sources.  It  objects  or  entities  with  characteristics  and  relationships. reduces the processing time and cost spent on sending huge  Example. Ontologies are required further for knowledge data to the cloud.  As fog nodes analyze all the data that  sharing to interpret the data representation [24]. Semantic needs to be recorded and delivered into the cloud which is  interoperability can be challenging: integration of multiple used  for  prediction  or  a  historical  purpose.  Fog  nodes  data sources, a distinctive ontological point of reference, provide  optimization  approach  for  an  IoT  sensing  P2P (peer to peer) communication, semantic discovery of application which improves data security and reduces data  data sources and services. IoT interconnected devices face latency,  faster  response.  Fog  nodes  analyze  data  with  standardization and reusability issues due to unpredicted minimum requirements like power and fewer resources by  faults. 
appending an appropriate sensing module. The performance 
level is reduced as data is uploaded into the fog nodes [17].  V.  IOT INCLUSIVE QUALITY ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK Fog computing in IoT can eliminate the dependency on a  FOR BIG DATA WITH IOT 
centralized  data  center  and  perform  the  in-network  IoT  has  made  a  machine  to  machine  communication computation to reduce the latency in computations. This  possible. We propose an additional IoT quality assurance lightweight computation also augments security solutions  layer before IoT data is integrated with the generic big data as it allows lightweight encryption schemes through fog-to- application.  As  shown  in  Fig. 4,  the  proposed  IoT  data things paradigms [18], [19]. Data generated by sensors and  validation layer sits on top of the data collection layer. A devices are processed efficiently and closer to where the  series of actions proposed in the layer would ensure that the data is originated instead of sending it to a diverse data  raw IoT data is transformed into suitable abstraction before center as is done by edge computing. A massive amount of  getting integrated into any new-age analytics model. 
data is collected and processed by edge devices locally,  As shown in Fig. 4 an IoT data quality validation layer stores condemnatory data. Edge computing is closer to end  can be included in Big-IoT framework immediately after users and provides Quality of Services (QoS) to end users.  data collection. Before integrating raw data collected from Edge computing nodes are also called edge/cloudlet servers.  IoT devices, a series of transformation and quality checks Edge  servers  reduce  operating  cost,  provide  real-time  in the proposed layer would facilitate further analysis of this analysis,  reduce  network  traffic  and  improve  the  data. 
performance of applications [20].  
C. Data Interpretability – Semantics of IoT Generated  Big Data  
The three V’s of big data volume, velocity, and variety  are inherently applicable to IoT data. Before integrating this  data with other non-IoT data for further analytics, high- level  abstraction  of  the  raw  IoT  data  can  improve  the  interpretability of the data. IoT requires algorithms that can  analyze data that comes from a variety of sources in real- time. Semantic technologies tend to enhance the abstraction  of  IoT  data  through  annotation  algorithms  [17].  The  “variety”  of  IoT  data  encompasses  time  series  data,  streaming  data,  geographical  data,  data  coming  from  wearable devices, etc. Providing insights based on these raw  values  requires  a  plethora  of  algorithms.  Semantic  technologies for interoperability on IoT are one of the latest  research field in IoT [14], [21]. Due to the heterogeneity of  devices and platforms in any big data and IoT framework,  augmenting data with semantics that the data represents can  add a very high value to the raw data that accumulates with  Fig. 4. IoT inclusive quality assurance framework.

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
119 
Telfor Journal, Vol. 11, No. 2, 2019. 
Data accuracy and consistency, data timeliness and data usability are very important quality attributes and can affect the performance of an analytics application. Ascertaining these  attributes  for  IoT  data  requires  entirely  different approaches and methods. Fig. 5 elaborates the difference between the data quality assurance methods with respect to IoT big data and non IoT big data applications for these above-mentioned quality attributes. 
Thus, IoT data needs to undergo various transformations before its assimilation into a big data analytics framework. The data quality validation layer proposed in this study aims to  encompass  the  features  of  IoT  data  quality  listed  in Fig. 5.  Based  on  various  processes  and  methods  as mentioned transformations on raw IoT data are performed wherever necessary. Seamless implementation of measures discussed with respect to every challenge mentioned in the preceding  section  would  assure  the  quality  of  IoT  data which is the primary ingredient of any new-age analytics model. An IoT data validation workflow can be designed based on this proposed validation layer to ensure that the data is ready for integration with other data in the big data ecosystem. This validated IoT data can then be integrated with HDFS, HIVE or any other big data framework for further analysis and interpretation. 

Fig. 5. Data quality assurance: IoT Big Data vs  Traditional Big data. 
VI.  CONCLUSION
Data  testing  is  a  critically  important  phase  in  the development of big data application. IoT is a massive game changer in the modern world where sensors are the heart of IoT and big data. IoT and big data help to connect to devices to generate data to transmit, compile, and run analyses and predict and forecast new future. This paper is an effort to highlight various dimensions of the IoT data quality. The paper also highlights the requirement of a dedicated IoT data pre-processing and validation cycle for IoT data before its integration with other data in Big data IoT paradigm. Authors emphasize a smooth and continuous amalgamation of  these  additional  processes  for  futuristic  IoT  big  data applications. 
REFERENCES
[1] J.  Gao,  C.  Xie  and  C.  Tao,  “Big  Data  Validation  and  Quality Assurance  --  Issuses,  Challenges,  and  Needs,”  2016  IEEE Symposium  on  Service-Oriented  System  Engineering  (SOSE), Oxford, 2016, pp. 433-441. 
[2] N. Elgendy and A. Elragal, “Big Data Analytics: A literature review paper,” P. Pemer (Ed): ICDM 2014, LNA 18557, PP.214-227, 2014. 
[3] J. Gao, X. Bai, W. Tsai and T. Uehara, "Testing as a Service (TaaS) on  Clouds," 2013  IEEE  Seventh  International  Symposium  on Service-Oriented System Engineering, Redwood City, 2013, pp. 212- 223. 
[4] E. Ahmed et al., “The role of big data analytics in Internet of Things,” Computer Networks, vol. 129, Part 2, pp. 459-471, 2017. 
[5] M. Gudipati, S. Rao, N. D. Mohan and N. K. Gajja, “Big data testing approach to overcome quality challenges,” Infosys publication, vol. 11, pp. 65-72, 2013. 
[6] M. Mohammadi, A. Al-Fuqaha, S. Sorour and M. Guizani, “Deep Learning for IoT Big Data and Streaming Analytics: A Survey,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 2923- 2960, Fourthquarter 2018. 
[7] https://iot-analytics.com/state-of-the-iot-update-q1-q2-2018- number-of-iot-devices-now-7b. 
[8] P. Verdugo, J. Salvachiua and G. Huecas, “An agile container-based approach to TaaS,” 2017 56th FITCE Congress, Madrid, 2017, pp. 10-15. 
[9] M.  Hassanalieragh  et  al.,  “Health  Monitoring  and  Management Using  Internet-of-Things  (IoT)  Sensing  with  Cloud-Based Processing: Opportunities and Challenges,” 2015 IEEE International Conference on Services Computing, New York, NY, 2015, pp. 285- 292. 
[10] H.  Kim  et  al.,  “IoT-TaaS:  Towards  a  Prospective  IoT  Testing Framework,” in IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 15480-15493, 2018. 
[11] R. Kumar, et al., “Monitoring system using android App”, ARPN Journal of engineering and applied sciences, vol 12, no 19, pp. 5647- 5652, October 2017. 
[12] C. Bekara, “Security Issues and Challenges for the IoT-based Smart Grid,” Procedia Computer Science, vol. 34, pp. 532-537, 2014. 
[13] P. Bhardwaj et al., “A review paper on smart home automation”, International Journal of Scientific Research and Management Studies (IJSRMS), vol. 3, no. 6 pp. 246-250, January 2017. 
[14] Z.  Khan,  Z.  Pervez,  A.  G.  Abbasi,  “Towards  a  secure  service provisioning  framework  in  a  Smart  city  environment,”  Future Generation Computer Systems, vol. 77, pp. 112-135, 2017. 
[15] M. Sripan, X. X. Lin, P. Petchlorlean and M. Ketcham, “Research and thinking of smart technology,” International conference on the system and electronic engineering, December 18-19, 2012. 
[16] R. Saia, “Internet of Entities (IoE): a Blockchain-based Distributed Paradigm to Security,” arXiv:1808.08809v1. 
[17] A. Čolaković and M. Hadžialić, “Internet of Things (IoT): A review of  enabling  technologies,  challenges,  and  open  research  issues,” Computer Networks, vol. 144, pp. 17-39, 2018.  
[18] C.  Mankar  et  al.,  “Internet  of  Things  (IoT)  an  Evolution,” International Journal of Computer Science and Mobile Computing, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 772-775, March 2016. 
[19] G. Sabarmathi, R. Chinnaiyan, and V. Ilango, “Big Data Analytics Research  Opportunities  and  ChallengesA  Review,”  International Journal of Advanced Research in Computer Science and Software Engineering, vol. 6, no. 10, pp. 227-231, October 2016. 
[20] W. Yu et al., “A Survey on the Edge Computing for the Internet of Things,” in IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 6900-6919, 2018. 
[21] C. Maple, “Security and privacy in the internet of things,” Journal of Cyber Policy, vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 155-184, 2017. 
[22] S. Pacha, S. R. Murugan and R. Sethukarasi, “Semantic annotation of summarized sensor data stream for effective query processing,” J Supercomput, 2017. 
[23] P. Murdock ed., “Semantic Interoperability for the web of Things,” DOI: 10.13140/RG2.2.25758.13122, August 2016. 
[24] M.  Harlamova,  M.  Kirikova  and  K.  Sandkuhl.  “A  Survey  on Challenges  of  Semantics  Application  in  the  Internet  of  Things Domain.” Applied Computer Systems, vol. 21, pp. 13-21, 2017. 
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
