
Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To remove all limitations, you can use Free Temporary License https://products.aspose.com/words/temporary-license/
SPECIAL SECTION ON INNOVATION AND APPLICATION OF INTELLIGENT PROCESSING OF DATA, INFORMATION AND KNOWLEDGE AS RESOURCES IN EDGE COMPUTING
Received August 9, 2019, accepted August 19, 2019, date of publication August 23, 2019, date of current version September 9, 2019. Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2937107
Testing and Quality Validation for AI SoftwarePerspectives, Issues, and Practices
CHUANQI TAO 1,2,3 , JERRY GAO4, AND TIEXIN WANG1,2
1College of Computer Science and Technology, Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Nanjing 210016, China
2Ministry Key Laboratory for Safety-Critical Software Development and Verication, Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Nanjing 210016, China 3State Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China
4Department of Computer Engineering, San José State University, San Jose, CA 95192-01809, USA
Corresponding author: Chuanqi Tao (taochuanqi@nuaa.edu.cn)
This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China under Grant 2018YFB1003900, in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 61402229 and Grant 61602267, in part by the Collaborative Innovation Center of Novel Software Technology and Industrialization, in part by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities under Grant NS2019058, and in part by the Open Fund of the State Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology under Grant KFKT2018B19.
ABSTRACTWith the fast growth of articial intelligence and big data computing technologies, more and moresoftwareservicesystemshavebeendevelopedusingdiversemachinelearningmodelsandtechnologies to make business and intelligent decisions based on their multimedia input to achieve intelligent features, such as image recognition, recommendation, decision making, prediction, etc. Nevertheless, there are increasing quality problems resulting in erroneous testing costs in enterprises and businesses. Existing work seldom discusses how to perform testing and quality validation for AI software. This paper focuses on quality validation for AI software function features. The paper provides our understanding of AI software testing for new features and requirements. In addition, current AI software testing categories are presented and different testing approaches are discussed. Moreover, test quality assessment and criteria analysis are illustrated.Furthermore,apracticalstudyonqualityvalidationforanimagerecognitionsystemisperformed through a metamorphic testing method. Study results show the feasibility and effectiveness of the approach.
INDEX TERMS
AI software quality validation, AI testing, testing AI software.

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

I. INTRODUCTION
With the fast advance of big data analytics and AI tech- nologies, numerous AI-based software and applications have been widely accepted and used in people's daily life. AI soft- ware and applications are developed based on state-of-the-art machine learning models and techniques through large-scale data training to implement diverse articial intelligent fea- tures and capabilities. Current AI-based software and appli- cations are classied such as natural language processing systems, object recognition systems, recommendation sys- tems, unman-controlled vehicles and so on. Therefore, how to perform quality validation for AI software becomes a critical concern and research topic from both academic and industrial focuses. According to the report [1], the automa- tion testing market size is expected to grow from USD 8.52 Billion in 2018 to USD 19.27 Billion by 2023, at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 17.7% dur-
The associate editor coordinating the review of this article and approving it for publication was Honghao Gao.
ing the forecast period (20182023). Based on recent test- ing experiences from industry on AI applications such as intelligent mobile apps, testing AI software has new prob- lems, challenges, and needs due to their special features below.
- Scientic-based development instead of engineering-
based development - Most AI software and applications are developed using scientic approaches based on AI models and training data by data scientists and big data engineers without well-dened AI software engineering process and development methods with clear quality validation require- ments and criteria.
- Limited data training and validation - AI software is
built based on machine learning models and techniques, and trained and validated with limited input data sets under ad- hoc contexts.
- Data-driven learning features - These features provide
static and/or dynamic learning capabilities that affect the under-test software results and actions.

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

120164 This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. For more information, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ VOLUME 7, 2019

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
 C. Tao et al.: Testing and Quality Validation for AI SoftwarePerspectives, Issues, and Practices
- Uncertainty in system outputs, responses, and decision
makings - Since existing AI-based models are dependent on statistics algorithms, this brings the uncertainty in the outcomes of AI software.
These unique AI software features above cause new dif- culties and challenges in testing and quality validation. Therefore, AI quality validation and assurance becomes a critical concern and a hot research subject. Although there havebeenmanypublishedpapersaddressingdataqualityand qualityassuranceinthepast[2][4], seldomresearchesfocus on validation for AI software from function or feature view. There is an emergent need in current research to quality vali- dation issues and quality assurance solutions for AI software and applications. Testing AI software can be considered as diverse testing activities with the intent of nding AI-based software bugs (errors or other defects), verifying that the AI-based software products are t or use, assuring AI func- tionalfeatures'adequatequalityandAIsoftware'sQoS(qual- ity of system service) parameters [41], [43]. Well-dened quality validation models, methods, techniques, and tools mustbedevelopedandappliedforAI-basedsoftwaretofacil- itate the test activities to achieve well-dened test require- ments and meet pre-selected adequate testing criteria and quality assurance standards. Typical issues of quality assur- anceandvalidationforAIsoftwareandapplicationsarelisted below.
- How to perform quality assurance for big data which
couldbeutilizedastrainingdataortestingdataforintelligent algorithms?
- How to make quality validation for application service,
e.g. what is the precision of the recommendation service?
- How to validate the quality of diverse intelligent algo-
rithmsandmodels,suchasdataminingandmachinelearning methods.
This paper is written to provide our perspective views on AI software (specic to feature or function) testing for quality validation. The paper is organized as follows. Section II discusses the tutorial concepts about AI software testing, including test focuses, features, and requirements. Section III reviews AI-based machine testing, AI software function testing, as well as the existing testing methods potentially-used for AI software validation. Section IV dis- cusses AI software testing quality parameters and evaluation as well as test coverage analysis. Section V presents case studies on an image recognition system using the proposed quality validation approach. The conclusion remarks are in Section VI.
II. UNDERSTANDING AI SOFTWARE TESTING
Why do we need AI software testing? The fast-growing AI software and the popularity of big data-based applications bring new needs and motivations. Numerous current and future software will be built with AI-based features and functions. Existing techniques and tools are not adequate to test AI-based features and functions. There are a lack of well-dened and experience-approved quality validation

FIGURE 1. The scope of AI software testing.
models and assessment criteria. In addition, there is a lack of AI-based testing methods and solutions for AI software. Thus, the meaning of testing AI software is illustrated in a denition below.
``Testing AI software refers to diverse testing activities for AI-based software/systems. Well-dened quality valida- tion models, methods, techniques, and tools must be devel- oped and applied for AI-based software to facilitate the test activities to achieve well-dened test requirements and meet pre-selected adequate testing criteria and quality assurance standards.''
Therefore, testing AI features of the software includes different testing activities to nd software errors, verify the performance of software, and assuring quality validation methods need to be developed. The testing goal is to achieve well-dened test requirements, meet pre-dened testing cri- teria, and standards of quality assurance of the under-test AI software.
A. TEST SCOPE AND MAJOR FOCUSES
Since AI software is built with diverse machine learning models and data-driven technologies, the scope of AI soft- ware testing should cover current typically-used intelligent features, such as prediction, recognition, and recommenda- tion. Fig. 1 shows the primary scope of AI software test- ing. Objects (human, animal) related testing such as object identication, recognition, and behavior detection are an important part of AI software testing. Various intelligent applications such as business decision, recommendation and selection [35], [36], [45], intelligent commands and actions, analytics and prediction capability [37], [38], [40], [46], as well as question and answer capability are current key AI testing topics. In addition, with the advance of unmanned vehicles and their potential huge markets, how to perform control validation and healthcare check will be a big chal- lengeforAItestingandqualityvalidation.Moreover,AIsoft- ware usually involves context issues, such as scenario, loca- tion[35],time,andstakeholders,therebycausingnewtesting issues in context identication and classication. The major focuses of AI software testing are summarized as follows.
(a) Testing AI functional features to assure their adequate quality in accuracy, consistency, relevancy, timeliness, cor- rectness, and so on using data-driven and AI approaches.
(b)Testing AI software's quality of system service param- eters based on well-dened quality standards and assessment criteria. These include system performance, reliability, scal- ability, availability, robustness, and security, and etc.
(c) Apply data-driven AI techniques to facilitate AI testing
processes and test automation.
B. NEW TESTING FEATURES AND REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS FOR AI SOFTWARE
As discussed above, AI software and applications have numerous unique testing features such as uncertainty and limited training/test dataset. These unique features bring more interesting quality validation and QoS requirements, challenges, and needs. Based on the recent feedback from engineers at Silicon Valley, how to assure the quality of AI software becomes a critical concern and research subject cur- rently. The primary testing features are presented as follows.
Multiple dimension-based rich media input data with multi-input models. This refers to new testing solutions to deal with multi-dimensional large-scale input data sets (such as numerous image graphs and videos) of AI software. For example, the well-known AI application Seeit1 supports text, graph, voice, and audio with diverse input domains both ofine and online.
Test data set selection from big data pools. This refers to test data selection to address the special testing features of AI software. In traditional software, test data is used for nding software bugs. Nevertheless, in AI software, test data is not just used for functional or program bugs. Bugs or defectsexistedintrainingandlearningmodelsinAIsoftware are also needed to be discovered using specic test data. A typical face recognition application `how old do I look' from Microsoft2 can be tested with thousands of pictures to indicate its correctness and accuracy. However, how to select effectivetestdatatodiscoveritsidenticationproblems,e.g., the accuracy of `how old do I look' is affected by lighting condition or background objects. Furthermore, bugs from models or learning algorithms can be detected with more test data with specic goals.
Knowledge-based AI software features and behaviors This refers to apply the domain-specic knowledge to assist in testing correct and precise AI software features and behav- iors.
Uncertainty of AI software features and behaviors. This refers to how to dene and modeling testing objects in a certain way and obtain testable functions through different test strategies, such as metamorphic testing, mutation testing, and fuzzy testing.
Learning-basedAIsoftwarefeaturesandbehaviors. This referstondingnewtestingapproachestoaddresstheleaning
1https://itunes.apple.com/cn/app/seeit/id721911549?lDen&mtD8 2https://www.how-old.net/

FIGURE 2. A sample object model-based AI software.
features of AI software. For instance, the learning capa- bility of AI software is needed to be tested in an evolved environment.
Real-time context-based diverse inputs affecting system outputs, actions, and behaviors. This refers to modeling complex context factors in a real-time instance, and analyze the relationship among diverse contexts, inputs, outputs, and actions.
After identifying the primary AI features, AI function features are analyzed for testing. For each identied feature, AI testing requirements are needed to analyze for future testing. For example, before testing an object of AI software, in order to facilitate function or scenario testing, diverse features are required to classify with a well-dened category. Test models are necessary to represent the diverse features under testing. In general, models can be constructed from different perspectives for AI software, such as a knowledge test model, feature test model, object test model, and data test model. As shown in Fig. 2, features of object relation, object identication, object behavior, object classication, and object context are selected for function testing with diverse sub-features.
In general, AI software needs to be tested at both function and system levels. Test planning, test modeling, test design, and test execution are the indispensable parts of the overall testing process for both AI software and traditional software. Since AI software has special features such as non-oracles, timeliness, and learning capability, here function test quality evaluationisaddedparticularlyasthenalstepofAIsoftware testing process. In this step, different quality parameters are measuredusingthepre-denedqualitymetricsbasedontest- ing result analysis. If the evaluation results are not accepted by stakeholders, the testing step goes to test modeling again for a new testing iteration.
III. AI SOFTWARE QUALITY VALIDATION CATEGORY AND APPROACHES
This section rstly illustrates a category of AI software test- ing, including Turing testing, testing AI software, AI-based software testing and AI-based machine testing. Then several existing and potential approaches to AI software testing will

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
120167
VOLUME 7, 2019
 C. Tao et al.: Testing and Quality Validation for AI SoftwarePerspectives, Issues, and Practices
be presented and discussed. Moreover, test quality evaluation and test adequacy analysis are illustrated.
A. TURING TESTING
Turing test was introduced by Turing as the imitation game in 1950 [5], aiming to test a machine's ability to exhibit intelligent behavior equivalent to, or indistinguishable from, that of a human. Turing proposed that a tester would ask the testee freely through some devices (such as a keyboard) in the case where the tester is separated from the testee (one person and one machine). After multiple tests, if more than 30% of the testers are unable to determine whether the testee is ahuman or a machine, then the machine passes the testand isconsideredtohavehumanintelligence.Theturningtesthas been considered as the ``beginning'' of articial intelligence (AI) [6], and it has also become an important concept related to AI system testing. Although the Turing test was designed to advance the development of articial intelligence, it also has several shortcomings [7].
B. AI SOFTWARE TESTING
In this section, the main focus is on validating AI software functions, external behaviors, and external visibility of QoS usingblack-boxtestingtechniques.Totestsoftwarefunctions and features, engineers could adopt convention black-box approaches to validate software quality. Typical examples include scenario analysis, decision table testing, equivalence partitioning,boundaryvalueanalysis,cause-effectgraph,and so on.
However, AI software testing differs from traditional soft- waretesting,sinceAIapplicationsarecharacterizedbyuncer- tainty and probabilities, dependence on big data, random input/output,difcultyinpredictingallapplicationscenarios, andconstantself-learningfrompastbehavior.Inrecentyears, many studies have worked on researching how to test AI software or systems [7][11].
Broggi et.al proposed the Public Road Urban Driverless (PROUD) test conducted in Parma from the uni- versity campus to the town center through different scenar- ios such as urban, rural, and highway roads [7]. Similarly, Li et al. [8] indicated the difculties of intelligence tests from four aspects and presented an example of how to design intelligence tests for intelligent vehicles. The authors gave the denition and generation of intelligence test tasks for vehicles to combine the benets of scenario-based test- ing and functionality-based testing approaches based on a semantic relation diagram for driving intelligence proposed in [9]. In addition, the authors applied the parallel learning method to the vehicle intelligent test and proposed a par- allel system framework that combined the real-world and simulation-world for testing [10], [11].
As discussed above, the process of testing AI functions includes test planning, test modeling, test case generation, testexecution,andtestqualityevaluation.Decisiontabletest- ing design technique determines the different combinations of inputs with their associated outputs and implements the
TABLE 1. A sample traditional scenario analysis on siri.

business requirements or rules of the system. It is also a represented type of cause-and-effect testing or logical test- ing. Black-box testing is used to test the end-user require- ments [12], [13]. It attempts to uncover the errors in the followingcategories:missingorincorrectfunctions,interface errors, behavior or performance errors, and initialization or termination errors.
Let us take Siri3 from Apple for instance. The functions of Siri based on voice command input are listed as below: received voice commands, convert voice commands into text commands (display entered commands), nd the text response and actions that match the recognized commands, text response, action response. To verify the AI functions of the software, the traditional scenario analysis method is applied to analyze the scenarios of applications and test whether the main functions are implemented correctly from the perspective of the scene. Table 1 shows a description of ve scenarios in testingSiri.
Based on the analyzed results and testing experiences, we conclude that the test cases designed by scenario analysis are practical and effective to validate common features and conditions. However, there are some defects to generate test cases using scenario analysis as follows.
a. As a typical intelligent software application with AI
features, Siri has rich context information. The different test contexts affect the results of testing Siri, such as the back- ground noise, the tester's gender, age, and accent.
However, the traditional scenario analysis does not consider these external conditions for testing. Hence, the designed use cases are incomplete, and the execution results of some test cases failed.
b. Advanced AI software or systems have the ability to
learn from data and experiences. Furthermore, some AI sys- tems even learn from environmental interactions and learn
3https://www.apple.com/siri/

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
120169
VOLUME 7, 2019
 C. Tao et al.: Testing and Quality Validation for AI SoftwarePerspectives, Issues, and Practices
dynamically during interaction with users. Thus, the more time you spend on using Siri, the better it will understand you. Siri achieved this by learning about your accent and some other characteristics of your voice. Therefore, if the sametesterrepeatedlytestsSiriforthesamevoicecommand, its overall recognition of dialects and accents will continue to improve, test results will be also affected. Unfortunately, traditional scenario analysis does not take this into account.
In order to test the voice-command-based AI functions more precisely, we should take different voice testing envi- ronments into account with context factors and modeling multi-dimensional testing space for AI features. Currently, we are working on this in another paper.
C. AI-BASED SOFTWARE TESTING
AI-based software testing refers to the leverage and appli- cations of AI methods and solutions to automatically opti- mize a software testing process in test strategy selection, test generation, test selection and execution, bug detection and analysis, and quality prediction [39], [42], [47]. It includes different testing activities in AI-based software testing. Due to the complexity of AI software and applications, traditional methods and test tools cannot meet the demands of testing these AI systems. Given this, a more effective method to test AI systems is desirable.
To deal with this problem, Souri et al. [14] used an AI-based testing technique named as Multi-Objective Genetic algorithm (MOGA) to reduce the number of test cases for testing web applications yet achieve maximum coverage with reduced cost, time and space. Considering manual testing is a tedious and time-consuming task, and it may also result in insufcient testing being performed and critical defects going unidentied, Straub and Huber [15] proposedanarticialintelligencetestcaseproducer(AITCP) to test articial intelligence system (AIS). AITCP starts from a human-generated test scenario and makes changes to it based upon a modication algorithm such as ant colony opti- mization and genetic approaches. The authors compared the resultsoftheAI-basedmethodandthemanual-basedmethod fortestinganautonomousnavigationcontrolsystembasedon selected four scenarios. The study results show that AITCP can be utilized to effectively test AIS for both surface (two- dimensional) and airborne (three-dimensional) robots.
Although there are many successful studies about the automated generation of test cases, determining whether a program has passed a given test remains largely manual. Langdonetal.[16]proposedtheuseofsearch-basedlearning from existing open-source test suites to automatically gener- ate partially correct test oracles. They argued that mutation testing, n-version computing, and machine learning could be combined to allow automated output checking to catch up with progress on automated input generation.
AI software testing differs from AI-based software testing in diverse views such as test objectives, test focuses, test scope, test coverage as well as test techniques and tools. For example, AI-based testing primarily aims to increase
efciency for a test process, reduce testing costs by reduce human operations, and increase bug detection effectiveness and speed. AI testing aims to provide on-demand testing services for AI software to support software validation and qualityengineeringprocess.AI-basedtestingmajorlyfocuses on test selection, automatic test execution, bug detection and prediction based large-scale testing history data and AI tech- niques. In addition, AI testing needs innovative continuous, timeliness, and currency testing techniques.
D. AI-BASED MACHINE TESTING
AI-based machine learning requires a huge number of inputs as the knowledge and different intelligent algorithms in order to make the right decision. By looking at an example using technologyinunmannedvehicles,therewillbeabasicunder- standing of how machine learning or machine intelligence work. The development of machine intelligence is still far from mimicking the cognitive competence of the human brain. It is still challenging to deal with those data effectively and making a driving decision accurately and quickly [17]. Machine learning sometimes returns an inaccurate prediction basedonthecollectionoftrainingdataandanengineerneeds tomakesomeadjustmentstoavoidsignicantlossesinterms of public safety.
DeepLearningisdesignedtocontinuallyanalyzedatawith a logic structure as mimicking how a human can draw a conclusion. The deep learning needs a huge number of data sets to use input in the algorithms in order to result in a more accurate prediction. For instance, Google's AlphaGo, a sharp intellect and intuition game, learns by itself with- out predened data. It makes a more specic move and becomes the greatest player of all. Deep Learning denes a new paradigm based on data-driven programming. Since Machine Intelligence or Deep Learning depends on the train- ing data, the accuracy and quality of data play a vital role for public safety using machine learning in autonomous vehicles.
Many kinds of research attempt to nd solutions for the current obstacles of Machine Learning Systems. To draw optimal decision making, approaches such as Fault Tree Analysis, Fuzzy Logic, Metaheuristic Algorithm, and Arti- cial Neural Network are developed to test with a huge amount of training data by using different algorithms. How- ever,thesufciencyandversatilityofDeepLearningsystems are based on the accuracy of the test data set. It is dif- cult to provide adequate support due to the accessibility of test data quality issue. The current Deep Learning systems have various vulnerabilities and their system analysis and defect detection are extremely difcult. Unlike traditional software systems, Machine Intelligence does not have a clear controllable logic and understandability since the process to make decisions rely on the training data. The recent study shows two major vulnerabilities in Deep Learning systems: Software quality from the output of Deep Learning alone is notadequate;andFailureinunseenattackseventhoughDeep Learning is immune to known types of attacks [18], [19].

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
120171
VOLUME 7, 2019
 C. Tao et al.: Testing and Quality Validation for AI SoftwarePerspectives, Issues, and Practices
Thus, how to make machine intelligent testable is a great challenge for future AI-based machine testing.
E. TYPICAL VALIDATION APPROACHES FOR AI SOFTWARE AI software testing could be performed using the following approaches from different perspectives.
- Classication-based AI software testing, in which classication models for test inputs, contexts, and out- puts and events are set up to ensure the adequate test- ing coverage of diverse input data classes, classied contexts and conditions, and corresponding outputs and classes [20][24].
- Model-based AI software testing, in which selected intelligentlearningmodelsanddatamodelsareextended to be traceable and testable AI test models to facilitate AIsoftware testingand operationsin qualityassessment of training data and test data.
- Metamorphic (Non-Oracle) testing, in which a property-based software testing technique is used as an effective approach for addressing the test oracle problem and test case generation problem [25][28]. The key element of metamorphic testing (MT) is a set of Metamorphic Relations (MRs), which are necessary features of the target function or algorithm in relation to multiple inputs and their expected outputs.
- Learning-based AI software testing using the crowd- sourced approach, in which selected machine learn- ing models and approaches are used to learn from crowd-sources testers in a service platform [30].
- Rule-based AI software testing, in which pre-dened expert-based rules are established and used in AI test generation and validation [32], [34].
Nevertheless, how to utilize the existing traditional or intel- ligent approaches to AI software testing is still a great chal- lenge currently.
F. DATA QUALITY VALIDATION FOR AI-BASED SOFTWARE In recent years, data (such as image and video image) qual- ity assessment has attracted signicant attention. Besides, thequalityofbigimage/videodatasetswithlabeledalsohave an important impact on machine learning algorithms, such as deep learning. Using a deep learning approach to train articialAIprogramsbased onannotatedtrainingdatasetsis
a popular way to develop intelligent software using a super- vised learning approach. With the increasing installation of video cameras in many cities, image data quality assessment is becoming a very hot research topic in computer vision and smart cities.
Thereareanumberofcausesaffectingthequalityofimage data [48], [49], such as sharpness, noise, tone reproduc- tion, contrast, distortion, etc. Thus, the typical image quality factors are listed as accuracy, accessibility, readability and understandability, consistency [44], etc.
According to the recent 2018 IEEE NAVIDA AI City challenge[33],manuallygeneratingannotateddatasetsbased
on image datasets from city street transportation cameras bring diverse data quality issues in a deep learning process. Their case study result clearly indicates that the accuracy and quality of derived AI city transportation programs using a deep learning approach highly depends on the quality of annotated training data sets. Based on their experience report, all of the challenge teams encountered diverse data quality issues in annotated training datasets. And they also discovered the urgent needs in quality validation models, methods, and automatic tools for annotated datasets although there are numerous data validation tools for structure data. Therefore, the key issues of quality assurance for big data applicationsarehowtovalidateunstructureddataqualityand how to validate system quality in terms of various quality factors.
Data quality validation and services in a deep learning processforAIsoftwarehasthreedimensions.Theyareshown as follows.
- Raw data quality checking, which refers to the quality checking process and activities for collected raw data, such as camera-generated images, and videos. The pri- mary objective is to perform raw data cleaning, quality monitoring, and evaluation to ensure high-quality raw data could be collected.
- Training data quality validation, which refers to qual- ity validation processes and activities for manually or semi-automatically generated training data sets, such as annotated data sets. Its objective is to improve the generation of training data quality in a deep learning processtoincreasethetrainingqualityforanunderlying AI software. The typical concerns include: a) training data scope and coverage, b) training data classication,
c) training data quality, and d) training data coverage.
- Test data quality evaluation, which refers to test data quality evaluation based on the validation results of a targeted domain-specic application. For a machine learning application system, the major focus of this task should be facilitating AI system quality problem detection,defectimprovement,trainingqualitycoverage and domain-based knowledge modeling issues for AI systems.
IV. TESTING QUALITY ASSESSMENT AND ADEQUACY ANALYSIS
A. TESTING QUALITY PARAMETERS AND QUALITY ASSESSMENT FOR AI SOFTWARE
Like conventional software quality testing, quality parame- ters such as performance, robustness, security, etc., can be applicable to AI software and applications. In addition to the system quality parameters, we must pay attention to specic quality parameters for AI software functions and features. Samplequalityparametersforimagerecognitionsoftwareare presented as follows.
- Correctness This quality factor reects if the recogni- tion result is true when faced with Boolean recognition

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

VOLUME 7, 2019
 C. Tao et al.: Testing and Quality Validation for AI SoftwarePerspectives, Issues, and Practices

FIGURE 3. AI software test quality assessment.
items,suchasgender,buyornot,recommendornot,age group, etc.
- Accuracy This reects the accuracy of the recognition result when faced with numerical recognition items, such as age, gender, and color. Different math index can be used to measure it, such as mean difference, variance, standard deviation, distribution interval, con- dence level, absolute mean or relative mean.
- SystemStability Thisreectsthestabilityoftherecog- nitionsystems.Forexample,torecognizethesamething twice or more times, the result should be stable.
- Timeliness This reects some indicators related to time, such as the recognition time, training time, and classify time.
- Recognition Ratio This reects the recognition ratio oftheimagesystem,suchastheperfectrecognitionratio which means the system recognizes the picture well, or recognition ratio which is divided by absolute mean or relative mean.
- System Robustness This parameter indicates the robustnessofthesystem.Forexample,whenperforming special operations on the recognized picture, we need to check whether the system can still recognize it well. The transformation includes overturning, mirror image, enlarging or shrinking, shearing, shear, gray scale, and changing the dpi.
- Image Quality This checks whether the recogni- tion systems can deal with the changing of the quality attribute of image, such as gauss noise, spiced salt noise due to the unreliable network transmission, etc.
Based on the discussed quality parameters above, testing resultsareanalyzedandevaluatedforqualityassessment.For example, there are ve quality factors in the set (QF) here as shown in Fig. 3. As we mentioned, AI software have a number of features (F1,...,Fn), composed of corresponding sub-features(F-s1,..., F-si,..., F-sm). For each measurable feature, we could perform test complexity (TC) analysis. In addition, the quality factors can be measured in terms of pre-dened quality metrics to show their percentage value. Quality Measurement results can be represented using a Radar Chart shown in the left part of Fig. 3. Nevertheless,
those measurement results need to be validated in practice to indicate their effectiveness.
B. AI SOFTWARE TEST ADEQUACY AND COVERAGE When AI software can be operated under different contexts andenvironments,itmustbevalidatedunderdiverseenviron- ments to achieve certain context test criteria for vendors and customers.Thus,engineersneedwell-denedtestcriteriaand an effective test coverage analysis solution. As we discussed in Section II, diverse test models can be constructed and utilized for test coverage analysis. For a knowledge model, AI knowledge test coverage analysis need to be performed; for a feature model, AI features, sub-features, and feature classication need to be analyzed for test coverage; and for a data-based model, data classication, data relation, data format,datarange,etc.,needtobeaddressedfortestcoverage analysis.
V. CASE STUDIES- QUALITY VALIDATION FOR ROBUSTNESS OF AN IMAGE RECOGNITION APPLICATION We performed case studies to indicate the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed quality validation approach provided in this paper. Here we selected a face recognition system as the study object. We performed a case study on a realistic AI application system- ``Alibaba Cloud Computing Services Facial Age Recognition API'' provided by Alibaba Companyusingthemetamorphictestingmethod.Thebase64 encoding of images is submitted to APIs, and the system returns with the recognition results. The experiment data sets are selected from the wiki_crop.tar in the open face dataset IMDB-WIKI. There are total of 52444 face data, and 10K images are selected randomly as experimental data sets.
A. QUALITY VALIDATION METHOD DESIGN
The designed quality validation method is based on the robustness of the age recognition system: The recognition result is deemed better when the real age and recognition age are closer to each other. Facial age recognition is a commonly-used AI application using diverse machine learn- ing algorithms and pattern recognition strategies. There are existing non-oracle problems and due to the effect of picture quality (such as clarity, lighting, background, and expres- sion), network or other reasons, the robustness of an age recognition system is a basic quality factor in quality assur- ance. Thereby we need to test the robustness of the system. Based on the understanding of facial age recognition system above, we adopt metamorphic testing to validate the quality of the system. We consider the possible situations that may occur in a recognition process, such as image rotation, trans- lation, landscaping, a watermark of a picture, or the distance between face and camera.
In this study, we dened two major metamorphic relations MR1 and MR2. For each metamorphic relation, we dene several sub-relations. For instance, in MR1, we give two sub-relations MR1-1 and MR1-2, i.e., a) recognized age is

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
120173
VOLUME 7, 2019
 C. Tao et al.: Testing and Quality Validation for AI SoftwarePerspectives, Issues, and Practices
TABLE 2. Metamorphic relation case partition.
    


Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

VOLUME 7, 2019
 C. Tao et al.: Testing and Quality Validation for AI SoftwarePerspectives, Issues, and Practices
stable under the spherical transformation (mirror), and b) recognized age is stable under image rotation. In the study, we veried if the image system under testing satises the dened MRs. The detailed metamorphic relations and their sub-cases are shown in Table 2. The proposed metamorphic relations are illustrated as follows.
This document was truncated here because it was created in the Evaluation Mode.
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

VOLUME 7, 2019
