
Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To remove all limitations, you can use Free Temporary License https://products.aspose.com/words/temporary-license/
2019 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data)
Industrial track: Architecting railway KPIs data processing with Big Data technologies 
Alexander Suleykin  Peter Panfilov  Natalya Bakhtadze 
V. A. Trapeznikov Institute of Control  School of Business Informatics  V. A. Trapeznikov Institute of Control Sciences,  National Research University – Higher  Sciences, 
Russian Academy of Sciences  School of Economics  Russian Academy of Sciences; Moscow, Russia  Moscow, Russia  Bauman Moscow State Technical 
aless.sull@mail.ru  ppanfilov@hse.ru  University 
Moscow, Russia sung7@yandex.ru

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

Abstract  —  in  our  conducted  research  we  have  built  the data processing pipeline for storing railway KPIs data based on Big  Data  open-source  technologies  –  Apache  Hadoop,  Kafka, Kafka  HDFS  Connector,  Spark,  Airflow  and  PostgreSQL. Created methodology for data load testing allowed to iteratively perform  data  load  tests  with  increased  data  size  and  evaluate needed  cluster  software  and  hardware  resources  and,  finally, detected bottlenecks of solution. As a result of the research we proposed  architecture  for  data  processing  and  storage,  gave recommendations on data pipeline optimization. In addition, we calculated  approximate  cluster  machines  sizing  for  current dataset volume for data processing and storage services. 
Keywords — Big Data technologies, distributed data processing, Hadoop, Spark, railway KPIs. 
I. INTRODUCTION
Nowadays the open-source solutions are becoming more and more popular and Hadoop stack with its already improved Map Reduce data processing engine is one of the most widely used technologies for big data storage. Based on Hortonworks Data Platform stack, it delivers 100% open-source global data management platforms and services so customers can manage the full lifecycle of their data. This stack is widely accepted by many large companies for data processing, storage, analysis and visualization.  
At the same time, the complexity of big data processing and  analysis  is  extremely  increasing  due  to  data  volume growth, data variety, velocity, different data formats of data transmission,  integration  problems  and  other  data complexities. At this point there is always a difficult task to build a robust, reliable and fault-tolerant data processing and storage  framework  that  could  handle  big  data  of  various formats  and  high  volume  from  different  data  sources  and systems. The current research is devoted to the application of big  data  technologies  based  on  HDP  Hadoop  stack  and  its ecosystem  to  the  building  of  data  processing  and  storage platform for railway roads KPIs. 
Performed  case  study  has  revealed  the  applicability  of regarded technologies to the building of full data pipeline for data  processing  and  storage  for  railway  KPIs.  Selected technologies  are  Apache  Hadoop,  YARN,  Apache  Kafka, Confluent  Kafka  Connector,  Airflow,  Apache  Spark, PostgreSQL. 
The conducted research generated the synthetic load tests based on datasets of real KPI data from one railway company with initial data load and X1, X2, X4, X8 increments on top of initial load. Load tests have shown the software and hardware bottlenecks for regarded datasets KPIs. The result of the work is  formulation  of  bottlenecks  of  data  processing  pipeline, recommendations  for  optimization  of  pipeline  and architectural sizing of machines and used Big Data services for  current  dataset  of  railway  KPIs  data  storage  and processing. 
In this paper, the authors have discussed the railway KPIs from  railway  transportation  operations  and  data-driven distributed computing perspective. Here, after introduction in section 1, the related works on concepts and requirements of KPI  frameworks  are  discussed  in  section  2.  The  way  to successful  implementation  of  the  distributed  computing architecture  for  the  railway  KPI  framework  is  described  in section  3  with  architectural  layers  detailed  description  in section 4 and dataset examples from railway industry in section 5, followed by experiments with proposed architecture and test results  in  sections  6  and  7.  Discussions  on  optimization recommendations and conclusions conclude the paper. 
II. RELATED WORK
Key  performance  indicator  (KPI)  is  a  collection  of performance measures that an organization or company uses to  monitor  its  performance  over  time.  KPIs  are  used  to determine  a  progress  in  achieving  strategic  and  operational goals  of  a  company,  and  to  compare  its  performance  with others within its industrial sector. Setting KPIs requires smart decision  on  how  many  indicators  to  track  to  determine  the success  of  business.  More  over,  the  relevance  of  the  KPIs must be continuously evaluated to ensure their alignment with priorities in business strategy and operations. Industry-specific KPIs have been created in different markets including retail, healthcare,  financial  services,  logistics,  manufacturing  and supply chain operations, and transportation. 
The increasing railway traffic and a corresponding need of railway  capacity  require  a  more  efficient  operation, maintenance and railway asset management by infrastructure managers (IMs). To support railway IMs in decision making process, KPIs are developed so that the results of operation and maintenance activities could be measured and monitored. 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

978-1-7281-0858-2/19/$31.00 © 2019 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE ESTADUAL DO CEARA. Downloaded on June 20,2024 at 17:38:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 978-1-7281-0858-2/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE 2047

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

In literature, one can find examples of projects on KPIs and benchmarking  for  railway  transport  operations  and  railway infrastructure maintenance [1-7]. 
However, KPIs used in railway transportation sector are often ad hoc and seldom standardized. In the course of last decade,  several  programs  were  undertaken  both  at  national and  international  levels  to  bring  a  common  ground  to  a multiple  efforts  in  developing  KPI  platforms  for  managing railway infrastructure. 
In Europe, an increased interoperability and building of a trans-European  railway  network  is  one  of  the  goals  of  the European  Union.  The  required  harmonization  and standardization  of  the  management  of  railways  have  led  to increased use of European Standards such as, for example, the European standard; Maintenance key performance indicators (KPIs),  EN  15341  [8].  In  the  paper  [9],  the  authors  have proposed  performance  indicators  for  railway  infrastructure, that have been mapped and compared with indicators of this European standard. 
In  2013,  a  Platform  of  Rail  Infrastructure  Managers  in Europe (PRIME) was established to assist in implementation of  the  Single  European  Rail  Area,  better  deployment  of European  Rail  Traffic  Management  System  (ERTMS), performance  benchmarking  and  exchange  of  best  practice amongst infrastructure managers. PRIME organization plays the role of the European Network of Infrastructure Managers as foreseen in Article 7f of Directive 2012/34/EU establishing a single European railway area, as amended by Directive (EU) 2016/2370. Among the major tasks of the Network there is a task  under  paragraph  (d)  “monitor  and  benchmark performance,  including  identification  of  common  principles and  practices  for  the  monitoring  and  benchmarking  of performance in a consistent manner”, which is carried out by the KPI's and Benchmarking Expert SubGroup. The subgroup is preparing yearly benchmarking reports, including the most recent  PRIME  KPI  Catalogue  [10],  which  contains  the indicators agreed by the expert group and their definitions, set out in a structured and prioritised way following the concept of the balanced scorecard. The KPIs have been developed over a three year period and tested in 3 pilot exercises. These KPIs will be fixed for use in the initial Dashboard tool, but it is expected that they will be developed further and improved on a regular basis in the future. 
A new challenges that railway KPI implementations might face are associated with the introduction of the international ISO 55000 standard [11] focused on asset management. The ISO  55000  series  standard  makes  asset  performance evaluation (APE) an important aspect of the asset management system (ASM) as per international standard ISO 55001:2014 [12]. The ISO 55000 series standard sets the asset management principles  for  organizations  to  follow  when  developing  and implementing  all  of  their  functions  including  units  and processes.  The  APE  serves  to  improve  the  level  of  the company's  assets  to  achieve  the  objectives.  The  asset performance  measurement  and  management  (APMM)  is  a recognized  best  practice  for  preparing  a  strategic  road  map from  top  strategic  managerial  level  to  the  operational  level 
through  a  link  and  effect  model  [13]  for  identifying  and developing KPIs. 
A high level description of the elements of APMM concept can be found in [14], followed by a comprehensive discussion on specific issues and challenges of APMM. Among them, an important new data-driven challenge is ”to define and develop methods for right data collection through condition monitoring and big data management, beside management of knowledge” [14]. 
Nowadays,  Smart  Monitoring  and  Smart  Maintenance (eMaintenance) concepts based on distributed data processing and  Big  Data  platforms  are  applied  for  real-time  data collection,  storage,  analysis  and  decision  support.  From business  objectives  prospective,  it  is  important  that  data collected are linked with KPIs so that they can be analyzed to compare and measure with business strategy and organization. Depending on the business requirements, the KPIs and other indicators can be used for generating composite indicators (CI) [15]  for  performance  benchmarking  with  the  best  in  the industry, besides verifying the return on investment. Stenström et al, in [15], developed a link and effect model for monitoring and analysis of operation and maintenance performance of rail infrastructure and demonstrated as a case study. 
Data  collected  from  smart  monitoring  systems  in commercial  and  industrial  setups  are  growing  rapidly  to  be very large in volume, high speed in velocity and vast in variety for the data acquisition, storage, processing and analysis. Big data technologies are used for information extraction through pattern recognition and eMaintenance solutions [16, 17]. While the data collection, data quality, processing and analysis for the asset performance  under Big  Data  analytics  has  taken  focal point, performance measures, indicators and key performance indicators (KPIs) dictates which data is needed to be measured and why [18]. 
Big Data analytics provides IMs faster and better decisions that were inaccessible before. Nowadays, most companies use business  analytics  and  data-driven  reporting  tools  to automatically  track  its  KPIs.  The  modern  Big  Data  and distributed  computing  solutions  help  companies  to  collect relevant data from operational systems and create reports on the measured performance levels. Company's executives and managers are obtaining KPI results on business intelligence dashboards  or  performance  scorecards  that  include  diverse linked  data  visualizations,  with  the  ability  to  improve understanding of the company's performance data. 
To guarantee the business success, KPIs and various issues and challenges of APMM should be considered thorougly. In this paper, we have touched the data-driven challenges of the KPI and APMM frameworks on the basis of our experience in architecting  smart  monitoring  and  management  systems  for mobile  network  industrial  sector  [19].  Here  we  have demonstrated how our expertise in distributed computing and smart  data  processing  can  be  applied  to  somewhat  similar problem  area  of  railway  asset  performance  monitoring  and measuring for establishing railway KPI framework. 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE ESTADUAL DO CEARA. Downloaded on June 20,2024 at 17:38:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 2048

III. CORE ARCHITECTURAL COMPONENTS OVERVIEW Integration Layer Storage Layer Serving Layer
We  propose  to  use  Lambda  architecture  as  a  basement 
architectural  methodology.  Thus,  it  allows  companies  to 
handle their data in the most reliable and effective manner for 
majority  of  use  cases.  In  our  previous  work  [19]  we  built 
Smart  Cellular  network  monitoring  service  using  Big  Data 
methods and tools on top of Lambda-driven architecture. The 
following picture depicts the key Lambda principles: 
Fig. 2. Research data pipeline architectural overview
The definition of used components is according to the table below (Table 2): 
TABLE II. CORE COMPONENTS DEFINITION 
 
ComponentDefinition 1 JBoss Fuse Industrial data bus for solving the integration problems of the entire company [21] 2 Kafka Distributed,  fault  tolerant,  horizontally  scalable, productive message broker [22] 3 HDFS Distributed fault tolerant file system optimized for storage for processing large amounts of data [23] 4 Spark Distributed  in-memory  framework  for  high-load  data processing [24] 5 PostgreSQL Relational database to provide BI data to tools [25] 6 AirFlow Universal Scheduler [26] Fig. 1. Lambda architecture overview 
It’s widely assumed to highlight the following layers (Table 1): 
TABLE I. ARCHITECTURAL COMPONENTS OVERVIEW 
 
Component Purpose 1 New data New data sources 2 Batch layer A layer of a full data set optimized for batch calculations. The role model is applied only at the level of subject areas (directories) and storing objects 3 Serving layer Provides fast (including random) access to structured data for  consumers.  Data should  already  be  all  designed  for Batch Layer. A role model is applied with the possibility of  limitation  to  objects  (tables),  attributes  /  indicators (columns) and rows 4 Speed layer Speed layer Designed for streaming data processing and providing access to the most relevant data, i.e. data that has not yet been recounted by the Batch Layer, but has already appeared in the system. The Speed Layer looks only at recent data without access to history,  while the Batch  Layer  looks  at  the  entire  data  history.  Not  all indicators can be calculated on this layer 5 Query Queries from external BI systems Data  transfer  from  Kafka  to  HDFS  is  implemented  using Confluent open source solution – Kafka HDFS Sink Connector [9]. 
IV. ARCHITECTURAL LAYERS DESCRIPTION AND DEFINITION
In our research Storage Layer and Serving Layer have their own Layers (sublayers),  which are used for methodological correctness of data load. The data pipeline of the whole data movement  is  strict  and  should  go  through  the  following sublayers inside Serving and Storage Layers: 
Data Storage Layer Serving Layer
As a Lambda-based driven architecture we have used the following architectural components in our research (fig. 2): 
Fig. 3. The Workflow data pipeline and layers interconnection
The next table shows the definition and description of each used sublayer: 
TABLE III. DESCRIPTION AND DEFINITION OF SELECTED SUBLAYERS 
Detail Data Store DDS Postgre The layer of the current data slice  presented  in  a relational form. Re-keying (generation of  internal storage IDs). Conversion from  object to  relational storage. Normalizati on of data (if necessary). Creating  a single  data model (without unification) Storing  a current  data slice Data Mart DM Postgre Groups  showcases  by  a specific attribute, most often the subject area. 
Contains  unified  detailed data. 
It  contains  calculated indicators  for  use  in reporting. 
Calculation  of  indicators used  in  several  reports  is necessarily submitted to this layer. Data unification. Denormaliza tion of data. Data Aggregation. Calculation of  derived indicators used  in several places. Report Layer REP Postgre The  final  reporting  layer. From it, data are used only for display in BI tools. It is forbidden  to  build  some reports  on  the  basis  of others.  Only  with  the transfer  of  the  information used in the DM layer. Calculation  of  indicators specific  to  specific reporting. 
It  can  be  both  logical  and physical. Calculation of  derived indicators specific  to  a particular report. Export Layer EXP Postgre For  each  data  consumer,  a scheme is created in which objects are placed for load. The circuit performs almost the same functions as REP Name Abbr eviati on Location Definition and functions Transforma tions Staging Buffer Area STG/ BUF HDFS The area of temporary data accumulation  in  the  format corresponding to the source without  any transformations. 
Streaming data comes from sources. No Staging  Exchange Area STG/ EXC H HDFS The intermediate region for forming  the  next  ETL processing packet. 
All  accumulated  data  are moved  from  the  buffer  to form  a  data  processing packet. 
It  is  assigned  a  unique BATCH_ID.  BATCH_IDStagingA rchive Zone STG/ ARC H HDFS Storage  of  the  complete archive  of  incoming messages  without transformation  of  the storage format. 
Incoming  messages  are archived  after  successful processing. Archiving and enlarging storage files. Operatio nal  Data Store ODS/ HIST HDFS The  area  in  which  the source  data  scheme  is stored, but they are reduced to  a  single  binary  form  of storage.  It  contains  the entire  history  of  changes and deletions. Convert  to binary storage format. Conversion from  object to  relational storage. Batch View ODS/ BW HDFS It  contains  only  an  actual slice of the state of objects without  a  change  history and deleted records. Calculation of the actual data slice. Detail Data Store Staging DDS_ STG Postgre Batch  layer.  A  separate instance is created for each source  system.  One-to-one data  is  transferred  from HDP  and  stored  only between  downloads.  Both full data load and only line changes (deltas) can come. Detail Data Store Logic DDS_ LGC Postgre Layer  of  transformation logic.  Contains  data transformation  procedures before writing to DDS. V. RAILWAYS KPIS DATA DESCRIPTION
The  conducted  research  has  been  performed  using  Key Performance  Indicators  (KPIs)  data  from  one  railway company.  The  data  are  represented  by  usual  star  schema which  means  that  there  is  one  fact  table  (main  table  with events  –  KPIs)  and  others  are  dictionaries.  The  data  are corresponded to the 3-rd level of normal form. 
The  entities  description  and  data  types  are  the  following (Table 4): 
TABLE IV. RAILWAY KPI DATA DESCRIPTION AND IT TYPES 
 
Entity Attribute Data type Description DATA_T YPE ID INTEGER Dictionary – type of data for  KPI.  Can  be approved or planned NAME CHAR DATE_TID INTEGER Dictionary – type of date 
This document was truncated here because it was created in the Evaluation Mode.
This document was truncated here because it was created in the Evaluation Mode.
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE ESTADUAL DO CEARA. Downloaded on June 20,2024 at 17:38:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 2052
