
Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To remove all limitations, you can use Free Temporary License https://products.aspose.com/words/temporary-license/
2020 IEEE 5th International Conference on Cloud Computing and Big Data Analytics
Big Data Oriented Light-Load Embedded Performance Modeling 
Jinfeng Dou   Jiabao Cao  
College of Information Science & Engineering   Department of Research and Development  Ocean University of China Qingdao 266100, China  Nokia Corporation  
e-mail: jinfengdou@ouc.edu.cn  Qingdao 266100, China  
e-mail: william.cao@nokia-sbell.com
Xin Li, Lijuan Wang, Shuya Tang 
College of Information Science & Engineering 
Ocean University of China 
Qingdao 266100, China  
e-mail: 450751328@qq.com, 296189725@qq.com, tangshuya1995@163.com 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

Abstract—With  increasing  development  of  big  data,  the performance  assessment  and  optimization  face  with  a  big challenge. The traditional methods widely use delivery-testing- analysis-solving  (DTAS)  ring.  In  big  data  area,  big  data environment is necessary for the testing phase in DTAS, which results in the big cost in both time and hardware. This paper proposes  the  big  data  oriented  light-load  embedded performance modeling. It ascertains the performance criteria to  set  the  Capacity  and  Performance  (C&P)  factors.  These factors  will  be  embedded  into  the  software  with  an  on-off switch during the architecture, design and developing phases before  DTAS  phase.  After  the  software  coding  done  with embedded C&P factors, a small traffic load is run to collect the C&P data. The collected data will be used for the performance bottleneck finding, performance optimization, and forecasting the capacity and performance for various customers’ scenarios. Since the data easily help locate the issue, the required running traffic  is  small,  and  the  problem  solving  is  done  before  the traditional DTAS, this study is more suitable for the big data application. It can save more than 50% of time, decrease the software  development  efforts,  and  reduce  the  lab  resources occupation. Finally, the proposed method is employed in the real prototype of an Internet of Things application, obtains the better  capacity  and  performance,  and  the  experiment  data verify its effectiveness.  
Keywords-Big  data;  capacity  and  performance;  light-load; performance modeling; performance optimization 
I. INTRODUCTION
With  more  and  more  fields  applying  Big  Data  and Internet of Things (IOT), the performance assessment and optimization of the software system face with a big challenge [1]. The capacity and performance (C&P) is the base and specific to the  software system [2]. Take an example, the closure of issues in GitHub projects and the model of issue closure  rates  proposed  cares  about  an  improved understanding and prediction of the important measure of the development process performance [3]. An abundance of data in many disciplines of science, engineering, national security, 
health care, and business has led to the emerging field of big data  analytics  (BDA)  that  run  in  a  cloud  computing environment [4].  
Applying  traditional  performance  assessment  and optimization, delivery-testing-analysis-solving (DTAS) ring, into the big data application has some problems, such as low efficiency,  big  testing  and  debugging  effort  and  complex expensive  environment.  In  the  traditional  ways,  the performance engineering almost depends on the performance tester’s testing and lots of debugging again and again [5]. To process  the  emerging  field  of  BDA  that  run  in  a  cloud computing  environment,  the  developers  leverage  Data- Intensive  Scalable  Computing  (DISC)  systems  such  as Google’s  MapReduce,  Hadoop,  and  Spark.  While  the developers have no easy means to debug DISC applications [6]. It still need lots of testing and debugging day and night with massive test cases for the coverage of big data.  
Various call models are usually used when deploying a software in the customer site. It is composed of some kinds of scenarios with corresponding weights. In some C&P work [7-8], to identify the C&P of one call model, the testing work need be done again and again to find its top capacity and throughput. Moreover, various customers may have various call  models.  Then  the  testing  work  will  take  lots  of  lab sessions which mean a lot of human resources, a lot of lab equipment, a lot of power consumption, a lot of lab space occupation, etc. 
To reduce  the testing  and debugging  cost  in time  and environment  for  C&P  monitor  and  optimization,  some performance testing tools are introduced, e.g., Insure++ for the  software  by  C/C++;  Jcontract  and  Jprofiler  for  the software by Java; XHProf for the software by php. These kinds of C&P tools can help with debugging. However, it still  needs  repeated  testing  and  complex  expensive environment.  
This  study  proposes  the  performance  modeling  based lightweight embedded C&P method (LECPM). The LECPM embeds C&P factors for the C&P monitor and statistics in the software interior. With a lower load running, e.g. 10% of 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

978-1-7281-6024-5/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEE 476

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

required traffic, the performance engineer can get the C&P statistics and analysis for the software, find and resolve the bottlenecks  and  related  problems  before  delivering  to integration testing. Since the used load is small, a lot of lab resources can be saved, and repeated testing can be reduced as a lot of lab sessions will be saved. Much earlier the bugs are  found,  much  less  the  development  and  maintenance efforts will be. 
II. RELATED WORK
A  performance  testing  method  for  embedded  software platforms was described, which analyzed the performance constraints of the platform to improve software quality and performance into account during early development stages, test system reliability [9]. The model allowed to take as well as  to  perform  regression  testing.  The  study  modeled  a system process based on load testing and profiling data to produce representative workloads, create profiler snapshots, and get performance hotspot reports [10]. The performance issues are identified and matched with the specification of antipatterns.  A  formalism,  stochastic  performance  logic, represented performance requirements, which can identify performance differences in realistic unit test scenarios [11]. An  automated  approach,  PerfLearner  [12],  extracted execution  commands  and  input  parameters  from descriptions of performance bug reports, and used them to generate test frames for guiding actual performance test case generation.  The  study  used  a  declarative  domain  specific language (DSL) drive the end-to-end process of executing performance  tests  [13].  A  model-driven  framework  can specify the performance intentions by relying on a powerful target-oriented  language.  A  systematic  literature  review identified  208  fault  prediction  studies  published  from January  2000  to  December  2010  [14].  The  methodology used to build models seems to be influential to predictive performance.  A  software  model  can  be  analyzed  for nonfunctional  requirements  by  extending  it  with  suitable annotations and transforming it into analysis models for the corresponding  nonfunctional  properties  [15]. Communication Sequential Processes (CSP) and the model checker Process Analysis ToolKit (PAT) [16] modeled and verified  the  OpenFlow  scheduled  bundle  mechanism  in software defined networking (SDN), which guaranteed the completeness  and  consistency  of  messages  transmitted between  SDN  switches  and  controllers  during  the communication process. 
Some  study  gives  the  method  to  resolve  part  of  the performance  issues.  Most  study  almost  depends  on  the performance tester’s testing and lots of debugging again and again, and most performance is mainly about fault finding. The  testing  work  will  take  lots  of  lab  sessions.  Various customers may have various call models, so many similar call models need repeated testing, and these testing will take huge  of  these  resources.  This  paper  introduces  the performance modeling that helps engineer find C&P related problems before delivering to integration testing, and reduce the development and maintenance efforts. 
III. LIGHT-LOAD EMBEDDED PERFORMANCE MODELING AND CASE STUDY
We propose LECPM to use low traffic to get the C&P factors  composing  of  the  performance  engineering  base, C&P  data.  The  C&P  factors  may  include  the  external resources  and  internal  resources,  such  as  CPU,  shared memory, message queue, global objects, etc. With these base C&P  data,  we  can  compose  any  call  model  and  give  the estimation for each call model for the validation, hence much testing work will be reduced. The C&P data will also clearly show the critical point of the capacity and performance, so the related problems can be much easier found, analyzed and resolved.  Moreover,  the  work  in  LECPM  is  done  before DTAS,  much  earlier  the  bugs  are  found,  much  less  the development and maintenance efforts will be. 
The performance engineering designates and validates the C&P data, provides the resolutions to optimize the system C&P,  and  implement  the  call  model  engineering  with forecasting the system C&P. The LECPM can use the base C&P data but not the personal experience as the chief gauge, which  is  a  much  more  scientific  way.  This  engineering requires the performance engineer to involve the software development from the beginning of the system requirements analysis.  The  performance  engineer  need  work  with  the system engineer to analyze the requirements, work with the architect to be familiar with the software architecture and to give the performance related comments to the architect, need start to write code in the early phase of software framework design  and  coding,  and  will  start  the  performance  initial analysis after the software framework done and before the functionality implementation. The detail work flow is shown in Fig. 1. It covers embedding C&P factors, C&P statistics and optimization, and C&P forecast. In this section, we will demonstrate how performance modeling is, how is it done, and finally we use the experiment data to verify it. 
Figure 1. The performance modeling work flow
A. Performance Modeling Base-AASI 
The base of performance modeling is the abundant C&P data.  The  C&P  data  is  conditionally  embedded  into  the software. The embedding work has 4 steps named AASI in Fig. 2. They are: Ascertain specific C&P factors, Analyze the software  architecture  and  split  it  module  by  module  and 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
477
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Exeter. Downloaded on June 19,2020 at 06:33:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

interface by interface, Specify the C&P data, and Implement the embedding of the C&P factors and the statistics of the C&P data in the software. The prior 3 steps are called AAS. 
Figure 2. AASI model 

Figure 3. The CPU variation with different traffic 
The  C&P  factors  include  the  exterior  resources  and interior resources. The exterior resources are common to all kinds of software; they may be CPU usage, shared memory, network  bandwidth  occupation,  the  disk  usage,  the  DB resources,  etc.  The  interior  resources  are  specific  to  the certain software, may be message queue, some certain global objects, count of threads, etc. The C&P factors may be some of them which depend on the software’s usage scenario and architecture characteristics.  
Here we need study the specific software architecture. Any  software  can  be  modularized,  and  the  modules communicates with each other using the public or private interfaces, and some modules may also communicate with external  resources  or  third  party  applications  using  public interfaces.  These  interfaces  may  be  some  global  objects, some message protocols, the files, the shared memories, DB objects, etc. 
In  addition  to  the  C&P  factors  ascertainment, modularization  and  interfaces  identification,  the  software application scenarios need to be identified. What we should do is to identify each single scenario. All of them will be used  to  specify  the  C&P  data.  Actually  any  above  C&P factors can be used for the C&P data. The C&P data could be like the CPU time used in one module and/or in one message, it can be counted with average value in a certain time, or be counted  with  the  total  value  in  a  certain  time.  The experiment shows that the average value in a certain time is much more useful and much easier to be compared and to be analyzed. The network bandwidth can also be as the C&P 
data. We can count the messages size in a certain time when they  are  transferred  between  the  modules  or  between  the module and external network element. They can be shown finally as the network bandwidth statistics. If the message queue is used in the software to have the modules interior communication, the message queue status need be taken as the C&P factor; it can be the size of queue, or be the hold time  for  the  queue.  Take  one  more  example,  in  some software, some global object is used to be the critical shared resources among some modules, then it must be used for the C&P data. The performance engineer may care about its total size any time, or about its variation trend. The final step, the embedding implementation, is to apply the above analysis and design into the deployed software. Definitely it should be a  feature of  this product,  and it also  has the  common software development cycle. It should be enabled or disabled easily, and it will only be used in the development lab. It will not take effect in the site, and will not and should not have any impact to the software when deployed in site. For the implementation, it is suggested that in the early development phase, i.e., once the software architecture is designed, these C&P data should be embedded into so that it can validate that the software adopts and implement a healthy architecture. 
B. C&P Monitoring and Optimization 
The software C&P is measured with the data of traffic throughput under the certain CPU level. We often set the CPU level as 45% or so for the max normal load in most healthy software especially related to the human behaviors, and  before  the  CPU  usage  reaches  at  40~50%,  the  CPU usage variation is linear with the traffic, as is verified in the experiment, shown in Fig. 3. The probability of the certain traffic load occurrence is following the Poisson distribution [17].  In  probability  theory  and  statistics,  the  Poisson distribution  is  a  discrete  probability  distribution  that expresses the probability of a number of events occurring in a fixed period of time if these events occur with a known average  rate  and  independently  of  the  time  since  the  last event. For example, suppose there is a telecommunications application,  this  application  is  serving  people  the communications.  In  the  dimension  of  time,  the communications traffic sometime is busy, and sometime is idle,  we  can  say  that  the  traffic  occurrence  follows  the Poisson  distribution.  What  we  want  to  ensure  is  that  the system works with a good criterion (e.g. 99.999% successful rate)  when  the  traffic  load  is  not  greater  than  the  most possible  traffic  load  (with  the  biggest  possibility)  per  the Poisson distribution theory; and may allow more errors when the traffic load is much greater than this value and reaches at its top, which is defined by the product manager or by the customer. For  a  healthy  and  economic  software, the  CPU usage under the above stated traffic load is 40~50% so that it can be tolerant of peak traffic load with enough CPU space. 
With  above  analysis,  we  will  monitor  that  how  many traffic throughput is supported by the aimed software under 45%  CPU  usage.  And  how  big  is  its  supported  capacity. Here we will get the CPU time, global objects status, and corresponding  memory  occupation  for  each  typical  single scenario, which are the C&P data base. These kinds of data 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
478
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Exeter. Downloaded on June 19,2020 at 06:33:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

are what we should monitor. In the performance modeling, we can first use 2 or 3 little call load to get the base, and then with  these  data  and  the  linear  variation  below  45%  CPU usage to evaluate the rough call load under 45% CPU, finally validate it. So the overall testing effort will be much reduced. 
It  is  recommended  to  implement  the  performance modeling  in  the  software  early  development  as  shown  in above  Fig.  1.  Thus  in  the  early  development  phase,  the system  performance  related problems  will be  found  early. How are they found? In above sessions, this paper stated that the  CPU  time  will  be  counted  in  each  module,  all  the message  queue  status  will  be  monitored,  and  the  global objects variation trend will also be tracked. After analyzing these C&P data, we will compare the CPU time and analyze its reasonability by each module. If the module A takes about 2% CPU time, however, the similar module B takes about 20%  CPU  time,  then  we  can  say  that  there  is  something wrong  in  module  B.  Moreover,  if  each  message  handling takes about 1 second in module C, we can say that module C is  abnormal  since  the  message  handling  should  only consume  the  millisecond  level.  With  the  tracked  global objects variation trend, if it is not flat but increasing, we can judge that there is some memory leak for these global objects. For the message queue, when using a higher call load, the message queue size increases for module B, we can say that module B has little ability to handle its messages; its ability need be improved by either multiple threads or by enhancing processing capacity of the single thread. We can see that this kind  of  optimization  takes  less  effort  than  the  traditional methods, and can be verified easily. With this method, the capacity issue can be easily found, and the developers can also check if the new code involves capacity issues using the less-effort performance modeling testing. 
In one real case, shown in Fig. 4, we developed a typical web  server  with  database  in  an  IOT  application,  which serves the end user for the http request including data query and input, and for the http notification of the received IOT data.  The  performance  modeling  method  is  used  in  this product to find the capacity issues so as to resolve them. This software uses the average processing time and the average awaiting time as the C&P data. As shown in Fig. 5, we can see  that  the  average  awaiting  time  in  the  module DataProcessingModule  is  abnormal,  and  the  average processing time in the modules DataProcessingModule and DBWriteModule are abnormal. The average awaiting time value  of  other  modules  is  100  or  so,  however,  the DataProcessingModule  is  greater  than  1000.  Most  of  the average  processing  time  is  about  300  or  so,  and DataProcessingModule and DBWriteModule are greater than  
1000.  With  the  software  architecture  analysis,  the abnormal data in DBWriteModule is caused by the database update operation which is reasonable and acceptable. What we should resolve is DataProcessingModule. The awaiting time means that the messages put into this module can’t be handled  immediately.  The  awaiting  time  is  close  to  the processing  time  in  DataProcessingModule,  after  analyzing the software architecture, we find that this module is a single thread,  the  later  coming  messages  must  be  wait  until  the 
previous messages completes. So we change this module to be multiple threads to resolve this issue. For the big average processing  time  in  this  module,  we  note that the logic in DataProcessingModule is the memory operation but not disk operation, so the big processing time is unreasonable. After comparing with the initial C& P data without functionality applied,  we  found  that  the  pure  software  framework  is excellent  in  this  module.  With  the  quick  temporary  C&P factor added and test, it is found that one system call related to the time is called, which consumes a big CPU time. The final  enhance  work  and  the  testing  results  on  these enhancement  shows  that  the  system  is  healthy  with  good C&P data. 
C. Call Model Engineering Based on C&P Forecast  
The call model definition or requirements mainly comes from the customer sites or from the product manager. When the  software  is  deployed  in  the  customer  sites,  various customers will have various kinds of call models, and even the  same  customer  will  have  different  call  models  in  the different  period.  The  performance  engineering  based performance  modeling  provides  an  easy  way  for  the  call model engineering, which avoids doing much test and saves much effort. This call model engineering is to forecast the C&P based on the C&P data of each single scenario together with the software architecture decomposition data, such as the module hit of each single scenario. 
Figure 4. The Web Server software modules and interfaces 

Figure 5. The initial C&P data 

Figure 6. The C&P forecast and real test result comparing 

Figure 7. The module hit of each single scenario 
Let’s continue to use the web server with database in an IOT application as the example. One customer needs the call scenario with 200 tps (transaction per second) of query + 500 tps  of  IOT  data  report,  and  wants  to  know  the  hardware requirement. As shown in Fig. 6, we have had the C&P data of each single scenario, query only and IOT data report only.  
With  the  software  architecture  decomposition,  each single scenario has the module hit data show in Fig. 7. Fig. 7 indicates how many times each module is called per scenario. We estimate the draft CPU usage according to the subtotal of the time of each module as shown in Fig. 6 and the given tps in each single scenario. The estimation method is: 
First get the estimated subtotal in certain module: The estimated subtotal in certain module = <subtotal of query> * <ratio of query> + <subtotal of IOT data report> * <ratio of IOT  data  report>.  By  the  way,  we  can  also  get  the  draft average time using the equation: average time = <estimated subtotal in certain module>/<the given tps for this module>. 
Then the estimated CPU usage can be calculated using method: ((CPU usage by query only + CPU usage by IOT data report only)/2) * (((< total time of query> + < total time of IOT data report)/2)/< total time of the estimated subtotal>. 
Finally what we estimated by this engineering method is that 100 tps of query + 500 tps of IOT data report need 63% CPU. The official supported top CPU is 45%, so we need deploy  2  instances  of  the  server  platform  to  support  the customer.  The  experiment  validated  that  this  engineering method is close to the real testing result.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
Generally, the performance modeling proposed a better method of the performance engineering. With this method, the  C&P  factors  were  embedded  into  the  software architecture, which helped the performance engineer easily nail down the capacity issue with little temporary debugging 
code  since  the  C&P  data  gives  detail,  helped  the performance  engineer  quickly  get  the  C&P  data  for  the specific call models, and could help the developer quickly find if the new change on the software has capacity issue. These  explicit  is  suitable  for  the  big  data  background.  It benefits  save  a  lot  of  development  effort  and  raise  the product competitiveness. The future research will be on how to  implement  a  common  implant  and  how  to  study  the general estimation tool. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This  work  was  financially  supported by  the  Shandong Natural  Science  Foundation  (ZR201702170341)  and Postgraduate  Education  Quality  Improvement  Program (HDYJ18008). 
REFERENCES
[1] Q.  Liu,  Y.  J.  Fu,  G.  Q.  Ni,  J.  M.  Mei,  “Big  Data  Management Performance  Evaluation  in  Hadoop  Ecosystem”,  2017  3rd International  Conference  on  Big  Data  Computing  and Communications  (BIGCOM),  Chengdu,  China,  pp.413-421,  10-11 Aug. 2017. 
[2] B.  Boehm,  “Improving  and  Balancing  Software  Qualities”,  2016 IEEE/ACM  38th  IEEE  International  Conference  on  Software Engineering Companion, Austin, TX, USA, pp. 890-891, 14-22 May 2016. 
[3] J. Oskar, J. Szymon, W. Adam, P. Kamil, J. Michal,  “Surgical teams on GitHub: Modeling performance of  GitHub project development processes”,  Information  and  Software  Technology,  vol.  100,  Aug 2018, pp. 32-46. 
[4] F. Xu, H. Zheng, H. Jiang, W. Shao, H. Liu, Z. Zhou, “Cost-effective cloud  server  provisioning  for  predictable  performance  of  big  data analytics”, IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 30, n. 5, pp. 1036-1051, May 1, 2019. 
[5] J. Y. Wang, “An imperfect software debugging model considering irregular fluctuation of fault introduction rate”, Quality Engineering, v 29, n. 3, July 2017, pp. 377-394. 
[6] M. A. Gulzar, “Interactive and Automated Debugging for Big Data Analytics”, 2018  IEEE/ACM  40th  International  Conference  on Software  Engineering:  Companion,  Gothenburg,  Sweden,  pp.  509- 511, May 27 - June 03, 2018. 
[7] O. Jarczyk, S. Jaroszewicz, A. Wierzbicki, K. Pawlak, M. J. Lorek, “A  software  quality  framework  for  large-scale  mission-critical systems  engineering”,  Information  and  Software  Technology,  vol. 102,  October 2018>*pp. 100-116. 
[8] R. Riccardo, Z. Lamberto, F. Alberto, A. Ilan, “Big data analytics capabilities  and  performance:  Evidence  from  a  moderated multimediation  model”,  Technological  Forecasting  and  Social Change, vol. 149, December 2019. 
[9] A. Shen, M. Kuzlu, M. Pipattanasomporn, S. Rahman, L. Chen, “ A performance testing method for embedded software platforms”, 2016 IEEE International Conference on Cyber Technology in Automation, Control, and Intelligent Systems (CYBER), Chengdu, China, pp.135- 140, 19-22 June. 2016. 
[10] C. Trubiani, A. Bran, A. Hoorn, A. Avritzer, H. Knoched, “Exploiting load  testing  and  profiling  for  Performance  Antipattern  Detection”, Information and Software Technology, vol. 95, March 2018, pp. 329- 345. 
[11] B. Lubomír, B. Tomáš, H. Vojtěch, K. Jaroslav, M. Lukáš, T. Tomáš, 
T. Petr,  “Unit  testing  performance  with  Stochastic  Performance Logic”, Automated Software Engineering, vol. 24, n. 1, March 2017, pp. 139-187. 
[12] X. Han, T. T. Yu, D. Lo, “Perflearner: Learning from bug reports to understand  and  generate  performance  test  frames”,  ASE  2018  - 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
480
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Exeter. Downloaded on June 19,2020 at 06:33:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Proceedings  of  the  33rd  ACM/IEEE  International  Conference  on Automated Software Engineering, Montpellier, France, pp. 17-28, 3-7 September 2018. 
[13] F.  Vincenzo,  P.  Cesare,  “A  declarative  approach  for  performance tests execution in continuous software development environments”, ICPE  2018  -  Proceedings  of  the  2018  ACM/SPEC  International Conference on Performance Engineering, Berlin, Germany, pp. 261- 272, 9-13 April 2018. 
[14] T. Hall, S. Beecham, D. Bowes, D. Gray, S. Counsell, “A systematic literature  review  on  fault  prediction  performance  in  software engineering”, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, vol. 38, n. 6, pp. 1276-1304, 2012. 
[15] M. Woodside, D. C. Petriu, J. Merseguer, D. B. Petriu, M. Alhaj, “Transformation  challenges:  from  software  models  to  performance models”, Software and systems modeling,  vol. 13, n. 4, pp. 1529- 1552, 2014.  
[16] H. W. Wang, H. B. Zhu, L. L. Xiao, W. L. Xie, G. Lu,” Modeling and Verifying  OpenFlow  Scheduled  Bundle  Mechanism  Using  CSP”, 2018  IEEE  42nd  Annual  Computer  Software  and  Applications Conference  (COMPSAC),  Tokyo,  Japan,  pp.  376-381,  23-27  July 2018. 
[17] I.  Ruiz-Rube,  J.  M.  Dodero,  R.  C.Palacios,  “A  framework  for software  process  deployment  and  evaluation”,  Information  and Software Technology, vol. 59, pp. 205-221, 2015. 
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
481
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Exeter. Downloaded on June 19,2020 at 06:33:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
