
Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To remove all limitations, you can use Free Temporary License https://products.aspose.com/words/temporary-license/
2019 IEEE 19th International Conference on Software Quality, Reliability and Security Companion (QRS-C)
Research on Security Detection and Data Analysis for Industrial Internet 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

Lin Jun 
China Electronic Product Reliability and Environmental Testing Research Institute, 
 Guangzhou, Guangdong, China, 510610 Email: linjun@ceprei.com 
Abstract— Industrial Internet platform needs to solve a series of problems, such as access of multi-type industrial equipment, multi-source industrial data integration, massive data management and processing, industrial Internet security and so on. This paper builds industrial big data analysis algorithm library based on domain knowledge modeling and big data analysis of industrial data. Through the analysis of the behavior characteristics of industrial internet network traffic data, this paper studies the method of selecting traffic characteristics of events in the industrial Internet; establishes the propagation and evolution model of security events in the industrial Internet, and builds a traceability map of security event propagation; This study combines the characteristics of large data volume and centralized control of future industrial Internet to reduce the complexity of security event detection and analysis. It has reference value for industrial Internet controller to formulate node routing strategy.
Keywords—Industrial Internet, Future network, Big Data, Security Detection 
I. INTRODUCTION
Industrial Internet is a name given to the current trend of automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies. It includes cyber-physical systems, the Internet of things, cloud computing  and  cognitive  computing[1].  It  is  marked  by emerging  technology  breakthroughs  in  a  number  of  fields, including  robotics,  artificial  intelligence,  nanotechnology, quantum  computing,  the  Internet  of  Things,  the  Industrial Internet of Things, fifth-generation wireless technologies (5G), additive  manufacturing/3D  printing  and  fully  autonomous vehicles. 
The fourth wave of the industrial revolution is expected to see the heavy implementation of several emerging technologies with a high potential of disruptive effects [2oÀ3].  
There are many challenges in implementation of Industry Internet,  for  example:  IT  security  issues,  which  are  greatly aggravated by the inherent need to open up those previously closed production shops. Industrial Internet need to maintain the integrity of production processes. Industrial Internet need to 
Liu Lan * 
College of Electronic and Information, Guangdong Polytechnic Normal University, 
 Guangzhou, Guangdong, China, 510655 Email: hust_ll@126.com 
avoid any IT snags, as those would cause expensive production outages.  And  Cloud  and  data  security  is  a  big  challenge  of Industrial Internet. There are many companies like Symantec, Cisco, and Penta Security have already begun to address the issue of IoT security. 
Industrial Internet is the focus of industrial development, and the control system is at the core of the whole industrial system. After the combination of industrial system and Internet, the system architecture has changed from controls-centered to industrial big data as the core [4]. Changes in the industrial Internet architecture have made information and data security very  important.  Based  on  the  current  situation  of  global industrial Internet development, this paper analyzes the new demands of industrial Internet development on network, studies the  collection  and  integration  of  industrial  big  data,  and analyzes  the  data  processing  and  security  problems  facing industrial Internet in the future. Through the pilot experiments in  automotive  electronics,  3C  manufacturing  and  other industries,  it  provides  some  reference  for  the  future development of industrial Internet network architecture. 
II. BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
Domestic and foreign researchers attach great importance to the research and application deployment of new technologies and networks, and actively explore the use of IPv6, Internet of things,  software-defined  network  (SDN),  5G  and  other technologies  to  build  industrial  Internet  that  meets  the requirements of high reliability, low delay and wide coverage. Among  them,  the  future  network  data  analysis  and  security research for the industrial Internet is an important direction that needs attention [5-6]. 
The  Industrial  Internet  requires  large-scale  network infrastructure  to  provide  support,  and  data-driven  network architectures provide possible solutions. For example, in [4], a new  network  architecture  consisting  of  data  plane,  control plane, information plane and market plane is proposed, which replaces  state  complexity  with  computational  complexity. Support  data  selection  through  data  intelligence,  solve 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

978-1-7281-3925-8/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE 466
DOI 10.1109/QRS-C.2019.00089

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

problems that are difficult to optimize in the network through data association analysis, and improve network service quality. 
For  the  heterogeneity  of  physical  implementation technologies and the massive data in the industrial Internet, it is necessary to provide the ability to detect, receive, transmit, and process  large  amounts  of  data.  In  order  to  realize  data processing  between  heterogeneous  networks,  a  unified interoperability model is needed. Virtualization technology and SDN  technology  provide  ideas  for  the  unified  optimization, control, and deployment of heterogeneous network resources [7]. 
Industrial  Internet  is  faced  with  more  complex  security issues. We need to combine the industry domain knowledge to study  new  security  protection  mechanisms  suitable  for  the development of industrial Internet. For the security protection of industrial  Internet,  more  research  and  exploration  pointed out that the typical cyber-physical-system (CPS) architecture supporting  Industry 4.0 can be represented by a layered 5C model [8], they are the connection level, Data to information conversion  level,  cyber  level,  cognition  level,  and configuration level. According to the 5C model, the Industrial Internet  needs  to  support  flexible  devices  and  sensor networking,  real-time  reliable  information  transmission,  and efficient  big  data  storage  analysis.  For  the  future  network security  of  industrial  Internet,  it  is  mainly  divided  into  five aspects: equipment security, network security, control system security,  platform  security,  and  data  security.  The  industrial Internet needs to comprehensively analyze and process the big data traffic of heterogeneous systems from five aspects, realize traceability  analysis  of  abnormal/aggressive  behaviors,  and timely discover abnormal behaviors and alarms in the network. Take  appropriate  security  measures  for  each  level  in  the platform. 
III. RESEARCH ON DATA ANALYSIS OF INDUSTRIAL INTERNET
Based on  the  industrial Internet  network data, this paper combines  large  data  analysis,  cloud  computing  and  edge computing to carry out data collaborative analysis of intelligent equipment,  forming  an  overall  solution  of  network manufacturing  and  industrial  Internet,  solving  the  real-time, reliable  and  safe problems  of  intelligent  manufacturing  field network.  Research  on  key  technologies  such  as  abnormal product  state  anomaly  detection,  trend  prediction  and  fault diagnosis,  including  heterogeneous  multi-source  mass industrial  big  data  analysis  technology  and  industrial  data security analysis technology. The system framework is shown in Fig 1. 
1. Heterogeneous  multi-source  industrial  big  data acquisition technology based on CPS 
To  deal  with  the  huge  amount  of  data  generated by  the heterogeneous  industrial  Internet  equipment,  and  to  analyze and deal with the large amount of network industrial data, these are all problems that need to be considered in the development of industrial Internet. We need to build an industrial monitoring system  oriented  to  the  big  data  environment,  analyze  and 
coordinate all kinds of heterogeneous and industrial big data, adjust  corresponding  management  and  production  strategies according  to  the  results,  and  make  the  overall  industrial network adapt to the dynamic and overall requirements of the big data environment. 
Starting  from  equipment  automation  and  product intelligence,  we  put  forward  a  heterogeneous  terminal architecture  integrating  distributed  perception  and  reliable transmission,  transformed  various  intelligent  equipment required by production, and established a CPS network system. By  building  a  more  accurate  and  efficient  data  acquisition system, we can comprehensively collect industrial big data and conduct real-time production monitoring. 
Realizing  the  intercommunication  of  numerical  control equipment is the core of the intelligent factory. We realize the data  collection  of  distributed  network  of  numerical  control equipment, robots, automatic production lines and other digital production equipment through the Internet technology based on IoT,  industrial  Ethernet,  Zigbee  >*  Bluetooth  and  other network  technologies.  The  data  acquisition  module  supports connecting  the  equipment  of  different  interfaces  (such  as RS232, RS422, RS485, RJ45, etc.), different communication protocols  (TCP/IP,  wireless,  etc.),  different  control  systems (such  as  Fanuc,  Siemens,  Mitsubishi,  Heidenheimer, Mazak, Fagor,  Agie  and  other  CNC  equipment  or  PLC  equipment control  system)  into  a  network,  and  realizing  real-time acquisition  of  equipment  status.  For  machine  tools  with network CARDS, we can directly collect the real-time status of the  machine,  program  information,  the  number  of  pieces  of processing, speed and feed, alarm information and other rich information,  and  collected  into  the  database  for  further processing. 
2. Industrial  Data  Modeling  and  Big  Data  Analysis Technology Based on Domain Knowledge 
Spark, Hadoop, Storm and other big data frameworks are widely used in batch and stream processing of massive data. Various  machine  learning  algorithms  such  as  decision  tree learning and Bayesian learning, especially artificial intelligence algorithms represented by deep learning and transfer learning, are  becoming  effective  tools  for  industrial  Internet  to  solve diagnosis,  prediction  and  optimization  problems  in  various fields. 
After  data  collection,  merging  and  cleaning  of  industrial Internet data, part of redundancy is removed. However, for the whole industrial Internet system, it can only be called initial data.  The  core  data  that  really  needs  to  be  found  can  be obtained  through  correlation  analysis  based  on  the  entire network  topology  environment,  the  time  and  frequency  of events, and so on. 
We use artificial intelligence algorithms such as machine learning  to  achieve  clustering,  correlation  and  predictive analysis of historical data, real-time data, and time series data. We have accumulated some experience in our previous work 
[9].  
In the process of industrial big data processing, we build the  industrial  big  data  algorithm  library.  Through  deep 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
467
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE FEDERAL DO CEARA. Downloaded on May 17,2024 at 14:26:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

knowledge of the physical, chemical principles, processes and manufacturing related to the field, the company meets the high confidence requirements of industrial data. 
Heterogeneous multi-source Industrial Devices IOT ZigBee TCP/IP Bluetoot Wireless PLC
Raw Data Äfrom different Industrial devicesÅ
 
Industrial Data   Integration   Industrial Data Extraction 
Core Data (Standardized) 
Filer; Aggregation; Correlation; Normalization 
Industrial Data Analysis 
Machine learning\Statistics\ Data Mining   
 
MovingAVG  ExpSmooth Copula, trend analysis. Inter- related rules
Domain-Knowledge DB 
Automobile  3 Electronics factory  C  factory 
Application and Testing 
 Fig 1.  Industrial Internet data and security analysis framework
The data analysis library uses analytical models suitable for R language and Spark Mlib, such as Copula (commonly used for risk analysis), ExpSmooth (exponential smoothing model, which  is  a  more  general  predictive  model),  MovingAVG 
(moving average model, commonly used for product demand growth prediction) and Trend  (trend  analysis)  and so  on. In addition,  there  are  early  warning  prediction  and  rolling prediction services. Visualization technology is used for multi- dimensional  analysis  and  reasoning  interpretation  to  realize visual  display  of  analysis  results.  According  to  different scenarios, different analysis methods can be selected to support general analysis interfaces including SQL and Restful services. We  study  basic  domain  knowledge  and  model  libraries, maintain data mining analysis programs and model algorithms, and save models and algorithms for easy recall. 
IV. INDUSTRIAL INTERNET SECURITY MODEL AND ANALYSIS TECHNOLOGY
In the future network, we use the characteristic data found by the previous research steps to analyze the traffic data in the network nodes and reconstruct the path of network attack. In the  process  of  analyzing  the  network  data  packets,  the traceability map is constructed according to the relevant path information,  and  the  location  of  the  malicious  code  is speculated  and  the  attacker  is  found.  At  the  same  time,  the spread  of  network  malware  on  the  Internet  is  a  dynamic complex network challenge. 
The  development  of  the  industrial  Internet  puts  higher demands  on  network  management  and  network  security. However, the traditional network has high hardware coupling and is difficult to expand. It cannot adapt to the changes of the industrial  network  topology,  and  it  is  difficult  to  meet  the flexible and customized requirements of industrial applications. The core idea of SDN is to decouple the control plane and data plane  of  the  network  device,  and  the  control  function  is completed by the controller that masters the global information of the network. With its simple network architecture and strong compatibility,  SDN  has  not  only  received  the  attention  of academic circles, but also the support of network equipment manufacturers, and has become the focus of research  in the network field. 
The  flexible  configuration  of  the  SDN  controller  is  the future development direction of the industrial Internet. Due to the  separation  of  SDN  network  control  and  forwarding, loopholes  caused  by  various  applications  are  inevitable. Security issues such as malicious code and DDOS attacks are also  faced  by  the  future  Industrial  Internet.  We  study  the malware traffic characterization model in the Industrial Internet. Through  the  traffic  collection  and  feature  analysis  of  the industrial Internet flow table data, the matching classification algorithm  is  found  to  accurately  discover  various  malicious attacks. We also study the sampling scheme of SDN packet attack detection in the industrial Internet environment. These studies  provide  a  good  reference  for  dynamic  security protection under the industrial Internet. 
1. Research on dimension reduction method of industrial internet traffic 
In the future industrial Internet, key data monitoring can be performed  at  each  node  according  to  the  characteristic difference between different data packets of the network node, and  the  data  packet  matching  the  feature  value  is  given  a 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
468
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE FEDERAL DO CEARA. Downloaded on May 17,2024 at 14:26:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

response, and the transmission path of the corresponding data packet is obtained. Realize network data traceability. Since the future network is based on flow tables, the flow table can be used as a matching rule for data packets. As the flow table design  supports  various  protocols,  the  matching  is  more granular, and the feature values are also increased. Previous studies  have  shown  that  most  classification  or  clustering algorithms  are  not  suitable  for  a  large  number  of  high- dimensional  sample  sets,  and  cannot  quickly  complete  the determination  of  large-scale  unknown  malicious  code.  We believe that feature selection is an effective method for secure data  preprocessing.  By  reducing  the  dimension  of  traffic characteristics, the complexity of security association analysis can be reduced. We pay attention to the application of feature selection method in future network switch traffic data. We use Fisher, ReliefF, mRMR, InfoGain, CFS, LVF and other feature selection  methods  to  sort  traffic  characteristics  and  perform comprehensive analysis according to different feature selection algorithms.  Effective  traffic  characterization  data  is  used  to build the next model. 
2. Research on Optimal Feature Subset and Classification Algorithm  Selection  of  Industrial  Internet  Security Events 
We  study  the  matching  degree  of  different  feature selections  on  algorithm  running  time  and  different  feature selection  methods  and  classification  algorithms.  There  are many  reasons  for  abnormal  traffic,  such  as  DDOS  attacks, witty  worms,  slow  scans,  etc.,  which  have  different performances in traffic characteristics. This project intends to separate the first 8-12-dimensional feature sequences obtained by  Fisher,  ReliefF,  and  InfoGain.  Combined  with  different depth  learning  algorithms,  the  accuracy  of  the  classification results is calculated, and the best eigenvalues of different types of security event detection and analysis are found. 
3. Research on the provenance tracking model of security events for the future industrial Internet [10] 
This study establishes the future industrial Internet model, considering the network subnet as a community, the subnet is a static community, and the subnets are dynamic communities. By  analyzing  the  impact  of  node  mobility  between communities  on  the  infection  and  outbreak  time  of  security events  on  the  source  and  destination  subnets  in  different network models. In the mobile environment, the influence of the spread of malicious code on the evolution of the network is studied.  Based  on this  model,  the  trace path of the  security event is found by constructing the traceability map. In this way, the administrator can analyze each event on the propagation path to provide a theoretical basis for the control strategy of the industrial internet. 
4. Research  on  Attack  Packets  Sampling  Strategy  in Industrial  Internet  Environment  Based  on  Game Theory 
We  design  and  simulate  an  Industrial  Internet  packet sampling  strategy,  using  zero-sum  game  and  analyzes  the security of multiple Industrial Internet topology networks. The Industrial Internet packet sampling problem is modeled as a zero-sum security game, in which both attackers and defenders 
participate, and the importance of each point is quantified into the income value. The income of the attackers and defenders are  determined  according  to  the  income  value.  Under  the knowledge of incomes of attack and defense, we determine the Industrial  Internet  topology  with  the  highest  security performance and security defense strategy. 
V. CONCLUSION
Based  on  the  design  concept  of  Industrial  Internet  and future network, this paper uses the efficiency of deep learning algorithm  to  analyze  heterogeneous  data  processing  and security  analysis  of  industrial  internet,  and  realize  data propagation  model and event detection  method in industrial internet. 
We  collect  industrial  data  from  heterogeneous  multi- sources, integrate, clean, and fuse data from data modules and acquisition  modules  of  the  Industrial  Internet.  The  project carries out modeling and big data analysis on industrial data based on domain knowledge, and establishes the industrial big data  algorithm  base.  We  design  professional  knowledge acquisition, representation and association methods, in-depth mining  domain-related  knowledge;  By  analyzing  the  traffic characteristics  of  industrial  Internet,  the  paper  studies  the selection method of traffic characteristics. Establish the event propagation  and  evolution  model  in  the  future  industrial network  environment,  and  build  the  traceability  diagram  of security event propagation; In the research process, we proved the  effectiveness  of  the  project  method  through  detailed analysis  and  test  application  examples,  and  verified  it  in automobile electronics and 3C manufacturing industry, so as to accumulate application data for data analysis and network security  monitoring  under  the  future  industrial  Internet architecture. 
Acknowledgements 
This research is supported by Special project for research and  development  in  key  areas  of  Guangdong  Province (2019B010121001),Guangdong Provincial Department of Edu cation Innovation Project(2016KTSCX078) 
REFERENCES
[1] The  new  industrial  revolution[R/OL].[2019-03-7]. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Industrial_Revolution 
[2] Manekar  A  K  ,  Pradeepini  G  .  Cloud  Based  Big  Data  Analytics  a Review[C]// International Conference on Computational Intelligence & Communication Networks. IEEE, 2016. 
[3] Lee J , Bagheri B , Kao H A . A Cyber-Physical Systems architecture for Industry  4.0-based  manufacturing  systems[J].  Manufacturing  Letters, 2015, 3:18-23. 
[4] Yin  H  ,  Jiang  Y  ,  Lin  C  ,  et  al.  Big  data:  transforming  the  design philosophy of future internet[J]. IEEE Network, 2014, 28(4):14-19. 
[5] Sarkar S , Chatterjee S , Misra S . Assessment of the Suitability of Fog Computing  in  the  Context  of  Internet  of  Things[M]//  The  clash  of cultures :. Heinemann Educational Books, 2015. 
[6] Kreutz  D,Ramos  F  M  V,Verissimo  P  E,  et  al.  Software-Defined Networking:  A  Comprehensive  Survey[J].  Proceedings  of  the  IEEE, 2015, 103(1):14-76. 
[7] Hu F . Network Innovation through OpenFlow and SDN: Principles and Design[J]. Crc Press, 2014. 
[8] Machii  W  ,  Kato  I  ,  Koike  M  ,  et  al.  Dynamic  Zoning  Based  on Situational  Activate for  ICS  Security[C]//  Control  Conference.  IEEE, 2015. 
[9] Lan L , Jun L . Some Special Issues of Network Security Monitoring on Big  Data  Environments[C]//  IEEE  International  Conference  on Dependable. IEEE, 2014. 
[10] Lan  L, Ryan  K.  L.K, Guangming  R  et  al.  Malware  Propagation  and Prevention  Model  for  Time-Varying  Community  Networks  within Software Defined Networks. Security and Communication Networks [J]. 
2017. https://doi.org/10.1155/2017/2910310 
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
470
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDADE FEDERAL DO CEARA. Downloaded on May 17,2024 at 14:26:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
