
Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To remove all limitations, you can use Free Temporary License https://products.aspose.com/words/temporary-license/
Annals of Emerging Technologies in Computing (AETiC)   
Vol. 4, No. 3, 2020 
Research Article 
Failure Mode & Effect Analysis and another Methodology for Improving Data Veracity and Validity 
Ana Elsa Hinojosa Herrera*, Chris Walshaw and Chris Bailey 
School of Computing & Mathematical Sciences, University of Greenwich, UK 
aehinojosa@ieee.org; C.Walshaw@greenwich.ac.uk; C.Bailey@greenwich.ac.uk *Correspondence: aehinojosa@ieee.org 
Received: 29th April 2020; Accepted: 1st June 2020; Published: 1st July 2020 
Abstract: Failure Mode & Effect Analysis (FMEA) is a method that has been used to improve reliability of products, processes, designs, and software for different applications. In this paper we extend its usage for data veracity and validity improvement in the context of big data analysis and discuss its application in an electronics manufacturing test procedure which consists of a sequence of tests. Finally, we describe another methodology, developed as a result of the DVV-FMEA application which is aimed at improving the tests' repeatability and failure detection capabilities as well as monitoring their reliability.
Keywords: Big Data; Data Veracity; Data Validity; FMEA; Statistics; Electronics Manufacturing; Quality Assurance; Test Limits Optimisation
1. Introduction 
The market of data analytics was valued at USD 904.65 million in 2019 and is expected to reach USD 4.55 billion by  2025  [1]. Moreover,  the use  of  data driven techniques is  popular in smart manufacturing. Cost reduction can be achieved by mining data for predicting the quality of a batch, improving robustness of processes, or by reducing the process cycle time, for example. 
With regards the definition of big data, the authors in [2] describe it using 1C for complexity and 11Vs for: Volume, Velocity, Variety, Volatility, Virtual, Visibility, Vendee, Vase, Value, Veracity, and Validity. In this paper we cover the last 2 Vs of the list. 
Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) is a method that has been used to improve reliability, testability and safety of hardware designs, processes, products, and software, for example [3-6]. In electronics, hardware (HW) FMEA has been used to improve electronics reliability [4], and in [7] software (SW) FMEA was used to validate embedded real time systems. 
In this paper we extend the usage of the FMEA method to improve data veracity and validity. The proposed extension (DVV-FMEA) is illustrated with an electronics manufacturing application for  quality  assurance.  From  using  DVV-FMEA  in  this  application  a  novel  methodology  was motivated for evaluating, improving and monitoring the definition of production tests. 
This article is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the data veracity and validity concepts and main causes that commonly affect data quality. Section 3 discusses the usage of FMEA for data improvement  and  its  application  in  production  testing  data.  Sections  4  and  5  present  the methodology  for  test  definition  evaluation,  improvement,  and  monitoring,  in  addition  to  its application in a production test dataset, respectively. And finally, Section 6 concludes the article and states future work. 
Ana Elsa Hinojosa Herrera, Chris Walshaw and Chris Bailey, “Failure Mode & Effect Analysis and another Methodology for Improving Data Veracity and Validity”, Annals of Emerging Technologies in Computing (AETiC), Print ISSN: 2516-0281, Online ISSN: 2516-029X, pp. 9-16, Vol. 4, No. 3, 1st July 2020, Published by International Association of Educators and Researchers (IAER), DOI: 10.33166/AETiC.2020.03.002, Available: http://aetic.theiaer.org/archive/v4/v4n3/p2.html.

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
AETiC 2020, Vol. 4, No. 3  15 
2. Data Veracity and Validity 
Poor data veracity and validity improvement is relevant for big data applications, because low quality data could generate inaccurate models and unreliable information, resulting in incorrect data- driven decision taking. In this section we discuss the characteristics of data veracity and validity. 
2.1. Data Veracity 
Data veracity is the ability to understand the data and the analytical process applied to a dataset. It covers aspects related to confidence in the dataset or data source, for example data integrity, availability, completeness, consistency, and accuracy and in addition, transparency and clarity in the processes used to generate, improve and analyse the dataset [2, 8, 9]. Authors in [10] discuss a general list of causes that frequently affect data veracity: 
· Measurement  system  limits:  For  example,  equipment  calibration,  human  errors,  and  non- standard measurement processes. 
· Limits of features extraction: This could be evaluated by measuring the precision of correctness and completeness. 
· Data integration limits: In real applications it is useful to gather and combine information from different sources, but sometimes it is challenging due to the diversity of data sources or formats.  
· Data ambiguity and uncertainty: In addition to the uncertainty due to data integration there are other sources of data ambiguity, for example ambiguities of natural language, uncertainty related to the information source and low relevance of the information with respect to other available information [11]. 
· Data  falsification  and  source  collusion:  In  [12]  authors  model  data  falsification  attack  as  a constrained optimization problem with two parameters: efficacy and covertness of the attack. The first parameter is related to the degradation in the detection performance, and the second one is the probability that the attacker will not be detected. In the formulation, the attacker would maximize the attack efficacy while controlling its exposure to the defence mechanism. 
2.2. Data Validity 
Data validity refers to data worthiness, which may change over time and during the process under study. For example, data generated before relevant changes in the process is not valid to generate models of the current state [2].  
The authors in [13] discussed data staleness for information systems where data is frequently updated. This data freshness characteristic is relevant, for example, in data streaming applications where information quickly becomes obsolete. 
3. Data Veracity and Validity Failure Mode and Effect Analysis 
In Section 2 we discussed the importance of veracity and validity. In addition, we noted its impact on data-based decision-making success. In this section we are going to present the DVV- FMEA steps to follow for improving these two elements of the big data definition, and the results of its usage in an electronics manufacturing quality assurance application. 
3.1. Steps of DVV-FMEA 
The DVV-FMEA is like HW FMEA, although with differences in System Identification, List of Failure Mode, Causes Identification, and Effect Analysis steps. The details as follows: 
Step 1. System Identification: In data-driven analysis, it is common that the modules identified in  the  process  before  using  datasets  for  analysis  consist  of  data  generation,  data  storage,  data gathering, and data pre-processing. Nevertheless, in some applications where data is streaming the storage module could be different.  
As in SW FMEA, the variables or features in the dataset must be listed for its evaluation. When working on big datasets which comprise a big quantity of variables, it seems sensible to group them based on engineering feature or data processes similarities. 
Step 2. List of Failure Modes Generation: It make sense to split the meeting time into the different modules and generate a failure modes list for each of these. The brain-storming meeting(s) should include team members with know-how and expertise in the data process and application. 
Step 3. Causes Identification: List the causes of failure modes and score them by its occurrence. We recommend including causes related to measurement system limits, features extraction limits, data integration limits, data ambiguity and uncertainty, data falsification and source collusion, data staleness.  Ishikawa  diagram  is  a  useful  tool  which  could  be  used  as  a  guidance  for  causes identification. In Fig. 1 is the version we propose for causes identification in DVV-FMEA. It could be used for each failure mode identified in Step 2. 

Figure 1. Ishikawa Diagram for DVV Failure Modes Causes 
Step 4. Effect Analysis: In this step the effects of the failures are listed, and each of the effects is scored by its severity. It makes sense to include impacts to confidence in the dataset or data source, data  integrity,  data  availability,  data  completeness,  data  consistency,  data  model,  or  analysis accuracy, execution time or efficiency, ability to replicate results or analysis, and data worthiness. 
As a guidance during the meeting, the DVV-FMEA leader could ask if and how each of the impacts listed above impacts the failure mode and fill it in the DVV-FMEA table. 
The following steps are the same as in HW FMEA. 
Step 5. Detection mechanism identification: A list with the available mechanisms that helps detecting the failure modes is generated. Each failure mode should have a score of its detectability. 
Step 6. Failure mode prioritization: In order to improve the efficiency of this method, the list of failure modes should be filtered based on the Risk Priority Number (RPN), which is calculated as in: 
Equation 1. Risk Priority Number 
=  ×  ×
Step 7. Process or Product Improvement: Based on the prioritization and resources available, the next step is to generate and execute an improvement plan, which contains actions to improve the data  veracity  and  validity.  These  changes  should  reduce  the  score  of  severity,  occurrence,  or detection. It seems likely that severity score is less frequently reduced. 
3.2. Severity, Occurrence, and Detection Scales 
For the scaling it makes sense to use simple scales for severity, occurrence, and detection scores. For example, a 5 levels measure such as the Likert scale, which is easy to use. In Table 1 is detailed the ranking scale we recommend. Whenever historical data or a previous DVV-FMEA is available, it could be used to quantify the severity, likelihood, or detectability rates. 
Table 1. Occurrence, Severity, and Detection Ranking Scale 
Ranking Occurrence Severity Detection 1 No known failures Very low or none Almost certain detection 3 Isolated failures Low or minor Remote chance of detection 5 Occasional failures Moderate or significant Moderate chance of detection 7 High rate of failure High High chance of detection 10 Failure is almost inevitable Very high or catastrophic Cannot be detected 3.3. DVV-FMEA Application in Production Testing 
In this subsection we include DVV-FMEA usage to establish the pre-processing step of the data analysis  of  an  electronics  manufacturing  application.  Experts  in  the  manufacturing  and  data processes were part of the team that generated the DVV-FMEA table. 
In this application the input variables are the result of individual tests in a sequence that runs in a stop-on-fail scenario. For some tests in the sequence, a feature is measured and then compared to upper, lower or both limits to classify faulty devices. More details of the application and intermediate steps of the DVV-FMEA can be found in [14]. 
As a result of using the DVV-FMEA, and based on the RPN, the list of +60 failure modes related to data validity and veracity was reduced to 14. Some of them are included in Table 2. Most of the improvements comprise R scripts that pre-process data before its usage for analysis. The scripts detect incorrect data and eliminate it, correct formats, and standardize data pre-processing steps to ensure repeatability, consistency, efficiency, and confidence. 
Table 2. DVV-FMEA for an Electronic Manufacturing Application 
System Module Input Failure Mode RPN Data Generation Overall result The overall result is not consistent 490 Data Generation Text File The file format is not correct 100 Data Generation Test: 90, 480 The test was unsuccessful to detect faulty devices 150 Data Generation Test type Different to test sequence ‘p’ 50 Data Generation Dataset Data does not represent the current process conditions 250 Data Pre-processing Data order The data is not ordered by date-time 70 Data Pre-processing Clean dataset No clarity on how the data was processed before using it for analysis 49 Data Pre-processing Test/Training datasets The sampling is not repeatable 70 The failure mode that has the highest priority is that the overall test result is not consistent, impacting the effectiveness of the test but also its efficiency because extra analysis is performed to ensure the good quality of the devices. The definition of the limits is relevant not only to the accuracy of the tests and the overall result, but also to its efficiency, because in the application one faulty characteristic of the device could be detected by more than one test in the sequence, but the earlier the  fault  is  detected,  the  shorter  the  length  of  the  test  procedure.  In  Section  4  we  present  a methodology proposed to improve the definition of the tests. It was automated using a Python script implemented in a Jupiter notebook. 
Another failure mode with high priority is to avoid using out-of-date data for data analysis because the model would not be useful for the current state. This failure mode is relevant because in real applications it is very common that the processes change over time, for instance using new raw materials,  updates  to  the  design,  or  improvements  to  the  manufacturing  procedures.  The methodology in Section 4 includes a  monitoring  phase  which could be used for  data analytics reliability as well. 
4. Test Limits Evaluation, Improvement and Monitoring Methodology 
The tests limits evaluation and improvement process we propose consists of four main phases: Test Efficiency Evaluation, Test Utility to Improve another Test Evaluation, Re-Define Test Limits, and Limits Monitoring. 
4.1. Phase 1: Test Efficiency Evaluation 
In this phase the aim is to evaluate each test in the sequence, comparing the data distribution versus test limits for FS-PTx, PS, and FTx samples. 
Step 1. Select a Test_x in the Sequence: The earlier in the sequence the better because potentially there is more improvement when finding a fail early in the sequence. 
Step 2. Split the Dataset into FS-PTx, PS, FTx: Here FS-PTx contains data of assets that failed the test sequence but in another test different to Test_x, PS contains the data of assets that passed the test sequence, and FTx is the data of assets that fail Test_x. 
Step 3. Plot Histograms for FS-PTx, PS, FTx: In the histograms can be visualised how each of these datasets performs versus the Test_x limits, if there is a partition between the three datasets, and if the datasets correspond to the same distribution. 
Step 4. Calculate Statistics for FS-PTx, PS, FTx: Descriptive statistics are useful for understanding the datasets. It makes sense to include mean, standard deviation, quartiles, maximum and minimum. 
Step 5. Partition Evaluation: Quantify the distance between PS and FTx populations. We propose using the following formulas: 
Equation 2. Partition Evaluation around Lower Limit 
max(FTx ) + 2 ∗ np.std(PS 0.15  0.85  ) < Tx lower limit 
Equation 3. Partition Evaluation around Upper Limit 
min(FTx ) − 2 ∗ np.std(PS 0.15  0.85  ) < Tx upper limit 
Where FTxbelow ll = {y in FTx | y < Tx lower limit}, FTxabove ul = {y in FTx | y > Tx upper limit}, and PSbetween 0.15 and 0.85 quartiles = {y in PS | y > PS quartile 15% & y < PS quartile 85%}. 
Step 6. Is there a Partition Between PS and FS-PTx? Using results of Steps 3 to 5 of this phase, when the answer is positive, the recommendation is to add or update the limits for Test_x. 
Step 7. Are PS & FTx Clearly Separated? Using results of Steps 3 to 5 of this phase, when the answer is negative, the recommendation is to reconsider the limits for Test_x. 
Step 8. Is FTx Empty? If the data of FS-PTx, PS, FTx are a representative sample, it can be inferred that it is highly probable that Test_x is passed, as a result could be eliminated from the sequence, or reduced the frequency of its execution. 
4.2. Phase 2: Test Utility to Improve another Test Evaluation 
In this phase the aim is to identify relationships between tests and whether one test could be used to calculate the result of another one. The steps are as follows: 
Step 1. Select Test_y in the sequence: Here Test_y is another test in the sequence which is executed after Test_x.  
Step 2. Are both continuous variables? If Test_x and Test_y measurements are continuous values, calculate Pearson Correlation Coefficient to quantify its association. If the coefficient is > 0.9 or < -0.9 the conclusion is that both tests are highly associated.  
Step 3. Are both discrete variables? If Test_x and Test_y measurements are discrete values, execute a Chi-Square Test to quantify their association. If the p-value is < 0.05 the conclusion is that both tests are highly associated. When the test sequence is run on stop-to-fail scenario, this test cannot be performed, since the dataset contains “pass” and “fail” data for Test_y but only “pass” for Test_x. 
When associated Tests are found in Steps 2 and 3, sometimes the association between them could be used to estimate the value of Test_y instead of performing the reading. As a result, the test sequence potentially could be reduced. 
4.3. Phase 3: Re-Define a Test Limit 
In this phase, the results of previous phases are summarised and joined after solving possible conflicts, followed by the implementation and documentation of changes. The details as follows:   
Step 1. Improvements Summary: Summarise the recommendations from Phase 1 and 2. 
Step 2. Feasibility Evaluation: Evaluate if the new test limits are correct from customer and engineering point of view.  
Step 3. Conflict Evaluation: Also evaluate if the recommendations are not in conflict, otherwise evaluate which is the recommendation that generates more improvement. 
Step 4. Update Test Limits Definition: The automated test sequence should be updated with the new test limits definition. It is likely that this motivates a new software version, which may need to be certified as part of software quality processes. 
Step  5.  Document  Changes:  We  recommend  that  these  changes  and  verifications  to  be documented on the DVV-FMEA to have all information related to data quality improvement in a single document. 
4.4. Phase 4: Limits Monitoring 
The objective of this phase is to continuously evaluate whether the new limits are valid, or a re- definition is needed. 
Step 1. Metrics Definition: It is relevant to select the most representative metrics to monitor, and it makes sense to choose only a few and to prefer the ones which are easy to measure.  
Step  2.  Continuous  Monitoring:  We  recommend  using  statistical  process  control  charts  to monitor the key metrics. To keep the manufacturing process as simple as possible, it makes sense to have a small list of key elements to monitor, and also to automate this step, and consider automated flags or warnings when the key elements are not in control. 
Step 3. Maintenance: Whenever any of the key monitored parameters are not in control it is time to revisit Phases 1 to 5 of this methodology. 
5. Test_80 Evaluation and Improvement 
In this subsection the methodology we proposed in previous section is illustrated using the Test_80, which is part of the test sequence analysed in the DVV-FMEA we included in Section 3.  
In Figure 2 the histograms of assets that passed the test and in Figure 3 the histogram of assets that failed the test. In both figures, the upper and lower limits of Test_80 are indicated in vertical lines.  
 
Figure 2. Histograms of Assets that Passed Test_80  Figure 3. Histogram of Assets that Failed Test_80 
Table 3. Statistics of Test_80 Samples 
Statistics PS FS-PT80 FT80 Count 171131 39846 368 Mean 2.090 2.089 1.694 Std 0.006 0.010 0.432 Min 2.057 1.996 -0.140 25% 2.085 2.085 1.470 50% 2.088 2.089 1.473 75% 2.097 2.096 1.949 Max 2.104 2.104 2.697 From  the  histograms  we  can  note  that  FS-PT80,  PS  and  FT80  populations  are  not  clearly separated. They are close around Test_80's lower limit. In addition, most of the assets, which failed Test_80, are near its lower limit. The statistics in Table 3 are in line with this conclusion. Furthermore, the results of the partition evaluation recommend re-defining the Test_80 lower limit. 
Following with the methodology, every test in the sequence was evaluated as stated in Phase 2. We found that there is a linear relation between Test_80 and Test_220. Furthermore, all are faulty assets when Test_80 < 2.05 & Test_220 > 2.05. Also, when Test_220 < 1.95 (Fig. 4). 
This document was truncated here because it was created in the Evaluation Mode.
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
www.aetic.theiaer.org 
