
Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To remove all limitations, you can use Free Temporary License https://products.aspose.com/words/temporary-license/
Chapter 21 
Software Quality in the Era of Big Data, IoT and Smart Cities 
Fatmah Yousef Assiri and Rashid Mehmood
21.1 Introduction
Software quality is the degree to which the software conforms to its requirements. General software quality attributes include testability, maintainability, efficiency, and reliability. One important aspect of software quality is software correctness, which concerns how well the program provides the required functionalities, as defined by its specifications, and can be achieved through software testing and debugging. Software testing is a dynamic process that executes the software under study using a set of test inputs to ensure its outputs meet the users’ expectations. If the software behavior fails to perform as expected, software debugging is performed, which involves checking the code to determine the cause of failures and fixing them.
Software testing and debugging are time-consuming. Studies show that soft- ware debugging and testing form between 50 and 70% of the total development cycle [41]. Software testing involves comparing a set of test inputs and expected results to the actual software outputs. If the software outputs fail to match the expected ones, a fault is detected and the software must be checked for errors. Code is debugged to locate faults and fix them. As requirements change, the software is tested again to ensure that it continues to return the expected behavior, and additional tests are written to test any new requirements; however, writing new tests is not a trivial process.
F. Y. Assiri ( )
College of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Jeddah, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia e-mail: fyassiri@uj.edu.sa
R. Mehmood
High Performance Computing Center, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia e-mail: RMehmood@kau.edu.sa
© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020 519
R. Mehmood et al. (eds.), Smart Infrastructure and Applications, EAI/Springer Innovations in Communication and Computing, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-13705-2_21

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
21 Software Quality in the Era of Big Data, IoT and Smart Cities 521
The complexity of software is on the rise with the developments of smart cities. Smart cities are driven by, or involve, integration of multiple city systems, such as transport and healthcare, with the aim to provide its citizens a high quality of life [76], see, e.g., [72] for motivations of smart cities and societies. Integrating multiple complex systems causes an increase in the complexity of the underlying software interactions and leads to a higher software complexity. This in turn makes the software quality a bigger challenge.
Relatedly, big data and Internet of Things (IoT) are driving radical changes in smart cities designs, and hence, the software systems landscape. Big data “refers to the emerging technologies that are designed to extract value from data having four Vs characteristics; volume, variety, velocity and veracity [71].” The Internet of Things (IoT) becomes one of the key technological developments of our times that we are able to realize its full potential; it is expected to be a major producer of big data [5]. IoT is defined as “a global infrastructure for the information society, enabling advanced services by interconnecting (physical and virtual) things based on existing and evolving interoperable information and communication technologies [81].”
Together, big data, IoT, smart cities, and other emerging complex applications have exacerbated the challenges of maintaining software quality. The big data produced by IoT and other sources is used in designing or operating various software machines and systems. Since the data is uncertain (i.e., the veracity characteristic), it could lead to inaccurate or faulty system behavior. For example, a computed tomography (CT) scan based on inaccurate machine behavior, or inaccurate data, may give a false positive result for cancer. A wearable device may analyze the data of a diabetic patient incorrectly, giving false negative results, leading to no insulin dose for a patient who actually needed a high dose of insulin. Automatic surgery machines, autonomous vehicles, and spaceships all are examples of critical software with high software and data quality requirements. Moreover, data is being used by organizations to develop strategies, policies, and operations; inaccurate data could lead to disastrous outcomes for these organizations and even for the whole national or global economy.
The aim of this paper is to review the technologies related to software quality in the era of big data, IoT, and smart cities. We elaborate on software quality processes, software testing and debugging. Model checking is discussed with some thoughts on the role it could play in the big data era and the benefits it could gain from big data. The role of big data in software quality is explored. Conclusion is drawn to suggest future directions.
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows. Section 21.2 discusses software quality, software testing and debugging. Section 21.3 discusses model checking. Section 21.4 introduces big data and reviews some related work. Sec- tion 21.5 presents a review of the work that applies data mining techniques to utilize available data to improve software quality. Section 21.6 concludes the paper.
21.2 Software Quality
Software quality is the degree to which the software conforms to a set of require- ments that meet the design specification and the users’ expectations. Quality can be viewed and evaluated from the aspects of function, structure, and process [26]. Functional quality concerns the conformance of the tasks to the users’ required functionalities, with few defects as possible. Structural quality relates to the quality of the written code and can be measured by code maintainability, testability, and understandability. Process quality relates to the development process such as meeting the delivery deadlines and budgets. These three aspects of software quality interleave and thus affect each other.
Software testing and debugging are among the main activities in the development cycle that guarantee the quality of the developed software. Software testing is a validation process that is conducted to ensure that the software meets its specifications, and software debugging is the process of analyzing the code to locate errors that caused the software to fail and correcting them [41]. In Sects. 21.2.1 and 21.2.2, we explain the work that has been done in both areas.
21.2.1 Software Testing
Testing, which is among the main steps in the software development life cycle to ensure software quality, involves executing a set of input values and checking their outputs to validate that the software meets its requirements and intended usage[10]. Testing is a dynamic process performed by observing the software execution. If the resulting output differs from the expected results, a fault is detected. The process of finding these faults and correcting them is called debugging.
Testing can be done at different levels depending on the phase that has been performed. Unit testing evaluates the software at the implementation phase and tests each unit separately. Units can be an individual element of the software such as a method or a class. System and integration testing are performed when the system is complete. System testing verifies that the whole system meets the design specifications, and integration testing checks that the subsystems (group of units) integrate correctly.
Software testing is divided into black-box and white-box testing. Black-box test- ing examines the application functionalities without looking to internal structures. Black-box testing creates tests from the software requirements and specifications; one form of applying it is through the equivalence class partitioning in which the program behaves the same for each set of input values; each set is called a class. For example, the program should retain the same output values for all positive number, thus the set of positive number is considered a class, and the program should be tested with exactly one value of each class.
White-box testing (also known as structural testing) is a method of testing software functionalities (internal structure), and it can be applied through unit and system testing. Tests performed by the software development team are called alpha testing, and those performed by the customer are called beta testing. Beta testing is also a form of black-box testing [79].
Tests consist of a set of test cases. Each test case consists of input values and a test oracle, which compares the expected output with the actual output to determine whether a program has failed or not [20]. To overcome the problem of having no oracles or the time-consuming process of writing them [94], metamorphic testing was introduced [28, 97]. Metamorphic testing creates follow-up test cases from a set of initial test cases using metamorphic relations. For example, if the initial test evaluates the power function f(x) = ex and the value of x is (3), then e2 is equal to value (let’s assume its (8) ). Metamorphic testing creates another test case which is the value of a is (− 2), and the output is (1/8). The metamorphic relation (MR) is used to check the outputs of the two tests. In this case, MR is that output of first test case (8) + the output of the second test case (1/8) is equal to (1). If MR does not satisfy, a failure is detected.
Mutation testing is an alternative testing approach which was designed to assess the quality of the test cases [35, 46]. Mutation testing creates a copy of the original program, called a mutant, with a seeded fault. The faults are a simple syntax change injected to the code [61, 80]. Tests are executed and the fault is detected if the output of the mutant is different from the output of the original program. Mutation testing computes a mutation adequacy score, which represents the number of detected faults over the total number of seeded faults. A higher score indicates a higher quality of the test sets. MuJava tool was developed to perform automated mutation testing by generating mutants and computing the adequacy score for a set of JUnit tests [62].
Software testing is labor intensive; thus, to reduce the costs, many automation techniques were developed to automate the generation of test data and test ora- cles [22, 23, 36, 55, 74, 90].
21.2.2 Software Debugging
Software debugging is a diagnosis process for locating and fixing errors that cause software to fail. Fault localization (FL) techniques were introduced to locate statements in source code that are more likely to contain faults. FL computes a suspiciousness score for each statement, and the computed score indicates the probability that a statement contains a fault.
Spectrum-based FL (SBFL) [1, 4, 18, 29, 32, 49, 86], which is a common FL approach, is a dynamic process that counts the number of passed and failed tests executed for each statement and computes a suspiciousness score for each statement. Statements executed during a failed run are considered to be more likely to contain faults and are thus assigned a higher suspiciousness score than other statements.

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
21 Software Quality in the Era of Big Data, IoT and Smart Cities 523
Table 21.1 The dynamic behavior of the faulty program gcd when executed against tests in T1, ..., T5. Sus. Score is the suspiciousness score computed using Tarantula
 
StmtT1T2T3T4T5gcd (int a, int b) {
if(a < 0) //fault
{ printf(“%g \n”, b);
return 0 ; } while(b ! = 0)
if(a > b)
a = a − b ;
else
b = b − a ; printf(“%g \n”, a) ; return 0 ;
}x x
x x x xx x x x
x x xx
x xx x x x x x xx
x x
x xStmt ID
Sus. Score
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
1.00 0.00 0.00 0.50 0.57 0.00 0.57 0.57 0.00 0.00
Many heuristics have been proposed to compute statement suspiciousness scores [1, 4, 48, 49, 77, 86].
To illustrate how FL techniques order statements based on the likelihood they contain faults, we used the C program shown in Table 21.1 that is adapted from [47]. The program computes the Euclid’s greatest common divisor. This example used four passed tests: T1, T2, T3, and T4, and one failed test: T5. To compute the suspiciousness score, we applied the Tarantula heuristic (Eq. (21.1)). To reduce the time of performing this step, many tools have been developed to automate other parts of testing, such as the FL techniques [45, 47, 83].
%FailedT ests(s)
susp_T urantula(s) = (21.1)
%PassedT ests(s) + %FailedT ests(s)
The debugging process also involves fixing located faults. Although this was traditionally a manual process, automated program repair (APR) techniques were developed to automate the process [52, 53, 59, 63, 78]. APR techniques take a faulty program and conduct a set of repair tests to produce a repaired program. Figure 21.1 describes the overall structure of the APR techniques. The APR technique applies an FL technique to create a list of potentially faulty statement (LPFS) that is ordered based on their likelihood of containing fault, creates a copy of the original program with one inserted change called a variant, and validates the created variant to check whether or not the fault is fixed.
To create the variants, a set of program modification operators (PMOs) are applied to change the code in the faulty statement generating the variant. PMOs are selected randomly or in order based on the applied search algorithm. Then, each variant is validated by executing it on a set of test cases, regression tests, or formal specifications. The variant is considered a potential repair or potential repaired program if it passes all the tests used in the process. The generated repair

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

524
Fig. 21.1 Overall automated program repair (APR) technique adapted from [15]
F. Y. Assiri and R. Mehmood


Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

is considered a potential repair, rather than a validated repair, because it is a repair with respect to the selected set of tests used in the process of fixing the faults. The repair is only considered a valid repair when it passes a set of tests (often regression tests) that were not included in the repair process.
Many researchers have contributed to improve the APR process and the quality of generate repairs. Debroy and Wong [33, 34] proposed using mutations through a brute-force search and an FL technique to automate fault fixing. Nguyen et al. [78] developed SemFix, which is a tool that locates faults using the Tarantula heuristic [49]. Then, symbolic execution and program synthesis were used to fix faults. Program syntheses are applied in a predefined order. Wei et al. [91] fix faults using Eiffel programs equipped with contracts, and Kim et al. [53] repaired faults by creating fix templates using 10 built-in patterns that were developed based on common patches written by humans. Weimer et al. [92] developed a weighting scheme to locate faults and applied an evolutionary algorithm to fix faults. APR techniques are also used to fix faults for executable software [25, 82]. Evolutionary computing and genetic programming have been adapted to repair faults in C software [38, 59, 92, 93], Java [12, 52], and Python [2], and to help satisfy non- functional requirements [13, 95].
The state-of-the-art APR technique is GenProg tool, which uses genetic pro- gramming to modify a program until it finds a variant that passes all the repair test [38, 59, 92, 93]. GenProg was used to successfully fix the Microsoft Zune bug date error, which froze Microsoft devices in 2008 due to an infinite loop that occurred on the last day of a leap year [75]. However, repairs generated using GenProg were hard to read and it only performed potential repairs since they failed when they were executed on a set of regression tests. Assiri and Bieman [15–17] proposed using first-order mutations with a stochastic search algorithm to generate repairs that are similar to efficient ones written by humans.
Even though debugging activities (locating and fixing faults) have been auto- mated to reduce debugging costs, there are many new challenges particularly with big data because it runs largely on parallel cloud computing platforms, making

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
21 Software Quality in the Era of Big Data, IoT and Smart Cities 535
it error prone and inefficient. Researchers have developed debugging tools to overcome these problems.
BigDebug is an interactive debugging tool that allows developers to set break- points to inspect program states during program execution [40]. BigDebug also provides guarded watchpoints, which return a set of records that satisfy a given condition. BigDebug, which provides backward and forward tracking and allows developers to fix faults and resume execution, improves the performance, avoids having to start the execution from the beginning, and reduces the locations should be checked for failures.
Considerable research has developed debugging tools for distributed systems. However, these typically depend on the use of a single frontend that controls many backend debuggers, which slows the process when used for large-scale distributed systems. Mehmood et al. [70] improved the structure of debuggers to scale them to large systems. The proposed debugging tool follows a hierarchical approach by using intermediate backend servers for a limited number of processes (Fig. 21.2), which evaluate assertions on the connected processes and report violations. This method improves the FL and system overall traffic, making it a suitable approach for large-scale distributed systems.
An alternative method for debugging a distributed system is to perform the debugging at higher-abstraction level than the unit level [21]. When performed at the system level, system behavior is translated into a set of events that are filtered to remove all events that are not of interest to the user. Event sequences are then clustered to create one single event that is used to identify the cause of failures in complex distributed systems. Event definition language (EDL) is used to define a set of events based on a combination of previously determined events. Events are compiled and interpreted to determine the cause of the failures.
Fig. 21.2 PDB architecture adapted from [70] 
Debugging tools rely on setting breakpoints or sets of slices to check the software’s behavior. Thus, if the specified locations of the variables do not contain the cause of the errors, the tools will be unable to identify the faulty code. Andrew and Myers developed the Whyline tool [54], an interactive debugging tool that allows developers to ask questions for a given output. Whyline records execution traces for each event and each execution trace has a specific trace file. Then, an output history is created for all stored events. When a class is loaded, Whyline runs an algorithm that depends on data dependencies to identify all variables and fields affected by the output. After identifying the codes responsible for the specified output, the tool generates questions using static and dynamic methods. Two questions are asked: why did and why did not. The first question is answered using the dynamic slicing technique and the latter is answered by investigating each instruction individually. The evaluation study found that using Whyline improved the debugging time for novice programmers, but it suffers from performance issues.
21.3 Model Checking
Model checking is a verification method that is performed to ensure program correctness by investigating all possible software internal states. Model checking requires a complete and clear set of properties that describes what the system should and should not do. The software states are checked against the specified properties. If a violation is found, counterexamples to the execution paths that caused the violation are generated. Model checking has been used to debug many systems such as airline reservation and e-commerce systems [19].
Model checking has also been used to automate software testing (see Callahan et al. [24]). White-box testing, which concerns the software’s internal representation through the investigation of execution traces for intermediate values, detects errors if an inconsistency exists between the actual and expected values. Specification- based testing, which uses model checking techniques, was proposed to validate and generate tests during the software evolutionary process. In this method, a computation tree comprising all possible execution paths is generated and searched to ensure that all paths follow the specified constraints.
Even though the work by Callahan et al. [24] used a model checker to generate test cases automatically, Amman et al. [9, 11] proposed using a model checker to generate mutation-adequate test cases by adapting mutation testing. Model checking is used widely to write and validate specifications. The proposed combination of model checking and mutation testing addresses the limitation of automatic test generation and mutation testing at the system level. System specifications are converted into a format used by the model checker using a modeling tool. Then, the generated specifications are mutated and used by the model checker to create counterexamples, which are used to automatically generate test cases. Tests are executed and the results and coverage are reported.
For test generation, the SPIN model checker [44] is used to identify execution trace paths for a specified property. Paths are validated and divided into partitions based on a defined set of requirements; each partition, which is called a coverage property, consists of a set of execution paths. Test templates, comprising actual test sequences, are generated using SPIN and are used to create invalid coverage properties to force the program to fail.
Formal methods, such as software cost reduction (SCR), have been used to improve software quality. SCR reduces the development cost since it helps to detect violations at an early stage in the software life cycle before the implementation [39]. SCR uses requirements to generate test sequences that consist of a set of input values and a set of output values for each input. The input values are validated by checking the set of constraints that are specified through the requirement specifications. Then, the test sequences are divided into equivalent partitions and test inputs are generated for all partitions.
Model checking relies on building models of the actual systems and then verifying the models, and therefore, big data technologies can be used to automate the process of model building. Big data technologies could also improve the quality of models that are built before being model checked. Alternatively, model checking can be applied to address the veracity challenges of big data.
While model checking has been very successful in verifying real-life systems, its biggest hurdle is the state-space explosion problem. Researchers have developed various techniques to address this challenge. These include, among others, the use of high performance computing techniques, see, e.g., [66, 67, 69].
21.4 Big Data
Big data is a relatively new research area that has been utilized in many fields such as online retail stores, decision-making, and scientific research [27]. Big data is defined variously in the literature: some researchers define it using the 3Vs: volume, velocity, and variety [56]. Volume relates to the size of the data, velocity is the speed of the data stream, and variety refers to the data types. Other researchers define big data using 4Vs, with the forth V referring to value, variability, or virtual [98]. Fen and Befit defined big data as the 3Vs plus two more: variability (data interpretation) and value (making decisions) [37]. We consider the definition where volume, variety, velocity, and veracity are used as the 4Vs of big data [71], and consider veracity, as many have noted, to be the biggest challenge of big data.
Big data applications can be used in business, technology, health, and smart cities. Big data can be used to improve quality of life. Data have been used in online retail stores, such as Amazon, to identify user preferences. Algorithms collect information about the users’ preferences based on their actions [65]. In addition, the amount of healthcare data is increasing and is expected to reach a zettabyte in the near future in the USA [85]. Using this medical data will benefit individuals’ health by enabling doctors to detect diseases at the early stages and determine treatments, recovery options, and risks. For additional works on big data in context of smart cities, see [6, 7, 14, 68, 73, 88].
21.5 Big Data and Software Quality
Data can be used as a validity tool to ensure software correctness, build rec- ommender systems, and predict future actions. Big data has been utilized in many sectors such as healthcare, banking, and transportation. Data are processed using data mining techniques to determine trends and to help in decision-making. Software quality can be related to big data in at least two ways. Firstly, big data can help develop better software quality techniques. Secondly, software quality techniques are needed to improve the quality of big data software and possibly deal with the big data veracity challenge.
With respect to software quality, existing work has applied data mining tech- niques to analyze data repositories, fix faults, determine trends, and automate test generation.
21.5.1 Mining Big Data
Data mining is performed to analyze large amounts of data to understand trends in the data and support decision-making [42]. Software intelligence (SI) is a new field of mining software data to help practitioners in daily decision-making processes, such as when to release the system, what part of the system to test, and/or what part to change [43].
Mining software repositories is a research direction that analyzes data repos- itories to obtain useful information about systems and projects. The types of repositories include historical repositories that show project progress; run-time repositories, which show system usage on deployment sites; and code repositories, which contain the code for software versions. Linking code repositories and bug repositories can provide a method for warning practitioners about bugs and risky codes.
Lin and Ryaboy analyzed Twitter data using data mining tools; however, due to the limitations of existing tools, the analysis was not a straightforward process [60]. In [89], the researchers mined heterogeneous information using the semantics of node types and the links between them in the networks. The researchers in [51] studied the potential of mining big graphs and found the PEGASUS tool to be a promising approach since it finds anomalous in the large Twitter connected graphs. Last, the authors in [8] focused on mining a large stream of Netflix Prize data to personalize recommendations. To improve the probabilities of customers selections, a lot of factors and more data need to be considered.
The authors in [50] used mining bug reports to develop the BugMiner tool, which uses the support vector machines (SVM) machine learning technique to perform a completion check and a redundancy check on new reports and estimate bug report trends (e.g., incident rate over time) of bug report databases using natural language processing. SVM used the historic reports to train the model to fill any missing fields. For any given report, the tool checks if it already exists by applying similarity ranking using cosine similarity, and Weibull distribution uses historicdata to estimate the number of bug reports received during a specified period (weeks or months) after the start of the project. The experimental results showed that BugMiner was effective in terms of bug reports completion, redundancy, and finding trends. The authors suggest combining the tool with other bug tracking tools to create advanced intelligent software.
Mining software is also used to develop a repair model in the area of APR [64]. In their paper, the authors mine software repositories by investigating developers comments to generate repair actions that can be used later to fix faults. Repair actions can be in the form of adding a method call or changing the condition of if statements. Repair actions are then assigned different probabilities that are also learned from the repositories. To collect fixes from repositories, the authors used data set of 14 repositories and checked the differences between transitions at the abstract syntax tree (AST) level. A difference algorithm was used to produce the set of changes between each pair of Java files. The authors generated 41 change types and 137 possible change type entity types. The empirical study found that 28% of the changes were statement insertions, 23% were statement deletions, and 23% were statement updates. However, the change type statement insert was composed of many entity types, e.g., insert method invocation, if conditional, insert new variable. The results showed that the probability distribution of change type is project independent.
To repair faults, the authors of [64] created a repair model and used different approaches to compute the probabilities of each repair action. The repair shape, which is a set of all possible combinations of repair actions, was then created. The search space is a combination of fault space, repair shapes, and the concrete repair actions that create the shape.
In [96], the authors mined software repositories to study the co-evolution of the production code and test code. Repository histories and log messages were analyzed; however, the results found no matching between changes in the production code and the test. In other words, the test codes remained the same after changing the production code. The test coverage also dropped since no new test was created to guarantee the coverage of the new boundary values. Despite the notable finding, the study failed to specify which data mining techniques were used to check the repositories.
Data mining algorithms are used to automatically induce missing functional requirements from data executions [58]. This approach can help to recover missing and incomplete specifications, design regression tests, and evaluate the correct- ness of software. Creating up-to-date regression tests is difficult, especially with legacy systems. One way to create regression tests is to identify the input–output relationships to write the requirements of the existing system. In [57], the authors proposed to identify the input–output relationships automatically using info-fuzzy networks (IFN), and they evaluated the effectiveness of IFN methodology on complex systems. The experimental results found that the data mining methods are effective for generating tests automatically without needing humans or complete sets of requirements since functional requirements are learned from data execution.
This study compares two approaches of automated construction of oracle: artificial neural networks (ANNs) and IFNs [3]. ANNs have been used to generate a minimal set of tests that are effective at revealing faults [57, 87]. To generate oracles automatically, the following three steps are performed: (1) the training phase, where the system is given positive oracles; (2) the evaluation phase, which accepts positive oracles and rejects negative ones; and (3) the decision phase in which the trained oracles identify correct test cases from unlabeled ones. The experimental results found that IFN would be more appropriate for testing applications that are at the early stages. However, ANNs appear to be better at identifying hard-to-detect faults.
Data mining techniques have been adapted to troubleshoot distributed sys- tems [30]. The goal of this approach is to identify which resources properties would succeed or fail for specific jobs. To demonstrate this approach, the job and machine features for 1000 jobs were extracted, and the job status was described as either a success or failure. Then, two data mining techniques were applied to generate a prediction model: C4.5 decision tree [84] and RIPPER rule-based classification algorithm [31]. Even though both methods predicted that the same features would cause the failures, RIPPER was found to be a more robust and promising method. While other data mining techniques, such as the lazy learning technique, can be applied, they tend to require more information before drawing the model. Additional research is needed to examine more internal or external features.
21.6 Summary, Conclusions, and Future Work
Software quality is the degree to which the software conforms to its requirements. General software quality attributes include testability, maintainability, efficiency, and reliability. One important aspect of software quality is software correctness, which concerns how well the program provides the required functionalities, as defined by its specifications, and can be achieved through software testing and debugging. The complexity of software is on the rise with the developments of smart cities due to the complex nature of these applications and environments. Big data and Internet of Things (IoT) are driving radical changes in the software systems landscape. Together, big data, IoT, smart cities, and other emerging complex applications have exacerbated the challenges of maintaining software quality.
The big data produced by IoT and other sources is used in designing or operating various software machines and systems. Since the data is uncertain (i.e., the veracity characteristic), it could lead to inaccurate or faulty system behavior. In this paper, we reviewed the technologies related to software quality in the era of big data, IoT, and smart cities. We elaborated on software quality processes, software testing and debugging. Model checking was discussed with some directions on the role it could play in the big data era and the benefits it could gain from big data. The role of big data in software quality was explored.
We discussed that software quality can be related to big data in at least two ways. Firstly, big data can help develop better software quality techniques. Secondly, software quality techniques are needed to improve the quality of big data software and possibly deal with the big data veracity challenge. We also highlighted that big data technologies can be used to automate the process of model building as part of the model checking process. Big data technologies could also improve the quality of models that are built before being model checked. Alternatively, model checking can be applied to address the veracity challenges of big data. As mentioned that the biggest hurdle of model checking is the state-space explosion problem that could be addressed using high performance computing techniques.
Our future work will focus on bringing together cutting-edge software quality and big data techniques to develop novel techniques for improving software and data quality of smart city systems.
References
1. Abreu, R., Zoeteweij, P., Van Gemund, A.J.: On the accuracy of spectrum-based fault local- ization. In: Testing: Academic and Industrial Conference Practice and Research Techniques- MUTATION, 2007. TAICPART-MUTATION 2007, pp. 89–98. IEEE, Piscataway (2007)
2. Ackling, T., Alexander, B., Grunert, I.: Evolving patches for software repair. In: Proceedings of the 13th Annual Conference on Genetic and Evolutionary Computation, GECCO ’11, pp. 1427–1434. ACM, New York (2011)
3. Agarwal, D.: A comparative study of artificial neural networks and info fuzzy networks on their use in software testing. Master’s Thesis, University of South Florida (2004)
4. Agrawal, H., Horgan, J.R., London, S., Wong, W.E.: Fault localization using execution slices and dataflow tests. In: Proceedings of the Sixth International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering, pp. 143–151. IEEE, Piscataway (1995)
5. Alam, F., Mehmood, R., Katib, I., Albeshri, A.: Analysis of eight data mining algo- rithms for smarter internet of things (IOT). Procedia Comput. Sci. 98, 437–442 (2016). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.09.068. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/ S187705091632213X. The 7th International Conference on Emerging Ubiquitous Systems and Pervasive Networks (EUSPN 2016)/The 6th International Conference on Current and Future Trends of Information and Communication Technologies in Healthcare (ICTH-2016)/Affiliated Workshops
6. Alomari, E., Mehmood, R.: Analysis of Tweets in Arabic Language for Detection of Road Traffic Conditions, pp. 98–110. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319- 94180-6_12. http://link.springer.com/10.1007/978-3-319-94180-6_12
7. Alotaibi, S., Mehmood, R.: Big Data Enabled Healthcare Supply Chain Management: Oppor- tunities and Challenges, pp. 207–215. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3- 319-94180-6_21. http://link.springer.com/10.1007/978-3-319-94180-6_21
8. Amatriain, X.: Mining large streams of user data for personalized recommendations. ACM SIGKDD Explor. Newsl. 14(2), 37–48 (2013)
9. Ammann, P.: System testing via mutation analysis of model checking specifications. ACM SIGSOFT Softw. Eng. Notes 25(1), 33 (2000)
10. Ammann, P., Offutt, J.: Introduction to software testing, Cambridge University Press, Cam- bridge (2016)
11. Ammann, P.E., Black, P.E., Majurski, W.: Using model checking to generate tests from specifications. In: Proceedings of Second International Conference on Formal Engineering Methods, pp. 46–54. IEEE, Piscataway (1998)
12. Arcuri, A.: On the automation of fixing software bugs. In: Companion of the 30th International Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE Companion ’08, pp. 1003–1006. ACM, New York (2008)
13. Arcuri, A., Yao, X.: A novel co-evolutionary approach to automatic software bug fixing. In: IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation, 2008. CEC 2008. (IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence), pp. 162–168. IEEE, Piscataway (2008)
14. Arfat, Y., Mehmood, R., Albeshri, A.: Parallel Shortest Path Graph Computations of United States Road Network Data on Apache Spark, pp. 323–336. Springer, Cham (2018). https:// doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-94180-6_30. http://link.springer.com/10.1007/978-3-319-94180- 6_30
15. Assiri, F.Y., Bieman, J.M.: An assessment of the quality of automated program operator repair. In: Proceedings of the 2014 ICST Conference, ICST’14, IEEE, Piscataway (2014)
16. Assiri, F.Y., Bieman, J.M.: The impact of search algorithms in automated program repair. Submitted to the 2015 International Conference on Soft Computing and Software Engineering, (SeSe’15) (2015)
17. Assiri, F.Y., Bieman, J.M.: Fault localization for automated program repair: effectiveness, performance, repair correctness. Softw. Qual. J. 25(1), 171–199 (2017)
18. Baah, G.K., Podgurski, A., Harrold, M.J.: The probabilistic program dependence graph and its application to fault diagnosis. IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng. 36(4), 528–545 (2010)
19. Baier, C., Katoen, J.P.: Principles of model checking. MIT Press, Cambridge (2008)
20. Baresi, L., Young, M.: Test oracles. Tech. Rep., Technical Report CIS-TR-01-02, University of Oregon, Dept. of Computer and Information Science, Eugene, Oregon (2001)
21. Bates, P.C., Wileden, J.C.: High-level debugging of distributed systems: the behavioral abstraction approach. J. Syst. Softw. 3(4), 255–264 (1983)
22. Boyapati, C., Khurshid, S., Marinov, D.: Korat: automated testing based on java predicates. In: ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, vol. 27, pp. 123–133. ACM, New York (2002)
23. Burdonov, I., Kossatchev, A., Petrenko, A., Galter, D.: Kvest: automated generation of test suites from formal specifications. In: International Symposium on Formal Methods, pp. 608– 621. Springer, Berlin (1999)
24. Callahan, J., Schneider, F., Easterbrook, S., et al.: Automated software testing using model- checking. In: Proceedings 1996 SPIN workshop, vol. 353 (1996)
25. Carzaniga, A., Gorla, A., Mattavelli, A., Perino, N., Pezze, M.: Automatic recovery from run- time failures. In: Proceedings of the 2013 International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 782–791. IEEE, Piscataway (2013)
26. Chappell, D.: The three aspects of software quality: functional, structural, and process, White Paper. Chappell & Associates, San Francisco, CA. Available at www.davidchappell.com. Last accessed 30 May 2019
27. Chen, C.P., Zhang, C.Y.: Data-intensive applications, challenges, techniques and technologies: a survey on big data. Inf. Sci. 275, 314–347 (2014)
28. Chen, T.Y., Cheung, S.C., Yiu, S.M.: Metamorphic testing: a new approach for generating next test cases. Tech. Rep., Technical Report HKUST-CS98-01, Department of Computer Science, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong (1998)
29. Chilimbi, T.M., Liblit, B., Mehra, K., Nori, A.V., Vaswani, K.: Holmes: effective statistical debugging via efficient path profiling. In: IEEE 31st International Conference on Software Engineering, 2009. ICSE 2009, pp. 34–44. IEEE, Piscataway (2009)
30. Cieslak, D.A., Thain, D., Chawla, N.V.: Short paper: troubleshooting distributed systems via data mining. In: 15th IEEE International Symposium on High Performance Distributed Computing, pp. 309–312. IEEE, Piscataway (2006)
31. Cohen, W.W.: Fast effective rule induction. In: Machine Learning Proceedings 1995, pp. 115– 123. Elsevier, Amsterdam (1995)
32. Dallmeier, V., Lindig, C., Zeller, A.: Lightweight defect localization for Java. In: ECOOP 2005- Object-Oriented Programming, pp. 528–550. Springer, Berlin (2005)
33. Debroy, V., Wong, W.E.: Using mutation to automatically suggest fixes for faulty programs. In: Third International Conference on Software Testing, Verification and Validation (ICST), pp. 65–74. IEEE, Piscataway (2010)
34. Debroy, V., Wong, W.E.: Combining mutation and fault localization for automated program debugging. J. Syst. Softw. 90, 45–60 (2014)
35. DeMillo, R.A., Lipton, R.J., Sayward, F.G.: Hints on test data selection: help for the practicing programmer. Computer 11(4), 34–41 (1978)
36. Dick, J., Faivre, A.: Automating the generation and sequencing of test cases from model-based specifications. In: International Symposium of Formal Methods Europe, pp. 268–284. Springer, Berlin (1993)
37. Fan, W., Bifet, A.: Mining big data: current status, and forecast to the future. ACM SIGKDD Explor. Newsl. 14(2), 1–5 (2013)
38. Forrest, S., Nguyen, T., Weimer, W., Le Goues, C.: A genetic programming approach to automated software repair. In: Proceedings of the 11th Annual conference on Genetic and evolutionary computation, GECCO ’09, pp. 947–954. ACM, New York (2009)
39. Gargantini, A., Heitmeyer, C.: Using model checking to generate tests from requirements specifications. In: ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, vol. 24, pp. 146–162. Springer, Berlin (1999)
40. Gulzar, M.A., Interlandi, M., Yoo, S., Tetali, S.D., Condie, T., Millstein, T., Kim, M.: Bigdebug: debugging primitives for interactive big data processing in spark. In: Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 784–795. ACM, New York (2016)
41. Hailpern, B., Santhanam, P.: Software debugging, testing, and verification. IBM Syst. J. 41(1), 4–12 (2002)
42. Hand, D.J.: Principles of data mining. Drug Saf. 30(7), 621–622 (2007)
43. Hassan, A.E., Xie, T.: Software intelligence: the future of mining software engineering data. In: Proceedings of the FSE/SDP Workshop on Future of Software Engineering Research, pp. 161– 166. ACM, New York (2010)
44. Holzmann, G.J.: Design and Verification of Computer Protocols, Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River (1991)
45. Janssen, T., Abreu, R., van Gemund, A.J.: Zoltar: A toolset for automatic fault localization. In: Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp. 662–664. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, D.C. (2009)
46. Jia, Y., Harman, M.: An analysis and survey of the development of mutation testing. IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng. 37(5), 649–678 (2011)
47. Jones, J.A., Harrold, M.J.: Empirical evaluation of the Tarantula automatic fault-localization technique. In: Proceedings of the 20th IEEE/ACM international Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp. 273–282. ACM, New York (2005)
48. Jones, J.A., Harrold, M.J., Stasko, J.T.: Visualization for fault localization. In: Proceedings of ICSE 2001 Workshop on Software Visualization, Toronto, Ontario, pp. 71–75. Citeseer (2001)
49. Jones, J.A., Harrold, M.J., Stasko, J.: Visualization of test information to assist fault localization. In: Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 467–477. ACM, New York (2002)
50. Kaiser, L.W.B.X.G., Passonneau, R.: Bugminer: Software reliability analysis via data mining of bug reports. Delta 12(10), 09–0500 (2011)
51. Kang, U., Faloutsos, C.: Big graph mining: algorithms and discoveries. ACM SIGKDD Explor. Newsl. 14(2), 29–36 (2013)
52. Kern, C., Esparza, J.: Automatic error correction of Java programs. In: Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Formal Methods for Industrial Critical Systems, FMICS’10, pp. 67–81. Springer, Berlin (2010)
53. Kim, D., Nam, J., Song, J., Kim, S.: Automatic patch generation learned from human-written patches. In: Proceedings of the 2013 International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 802–811. IEEE, Piscataway (2013)
54. Ko, A.J., Myers, B.A.: Debugging reinvented: asking and answering why and why not questions about program behavior. In: Proceedings of the 30th International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 301–310. ACM, New York (2008)
55. Lamancha, B.P., Polo, M., Caivano, D., Piattini, M., Visaggio, G.: Automated generation of test oracles using a model-driven approach. Inf. Softw. Technol. 55(2), 301–319 (2013)
56. Laney, D.: 3d data management: controlling data volume, velocity and variety. META Group Res. Note 6(70), 1 (2001)
57. Last, M., Kandel, A.: Automated test reduction using an info-fuzzy network. In: Software Engineering with Computational Intelligence, pp. 235–258. Springer, Boston (2003)
58. Last, M., Friedman, M., Kandel, A.: The data mining approach to automated software testing. In: Proceedings of the Ninth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 388–396. ACM, New York (2003)
59. Le Goues, C., Nguyen, T., Forrest, S., Weimer, W.: GenProg: a generic method for automatic software repair. IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng. 38(1), 54–72 (2012)
60. Lin, J., Ryaboy, D.: Scaling big data mining infrastructure: the twitter experience. ACM SIGKDD Explor. Newsl. 14(2), 6–19 (2013)
61. Ma, Y.S., Kwon, Y.R., Offutt, J.: Inter-class mutation operators for java. In: Proceedings of 13th International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering, 2002. ISSRE 2003, pp. 352– 363. IEEE, Piscataway (2002)
62. Ma, Y.S., Offutt, J., Kwon, Y.R.: Mujava: a mutation system for Java. In: Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 827–830. ACM, New York (2006)
63. Martinez, M., Monperrus, M.: Astor: evolutionary automatic software repair for Java. arXiv preprint arXiv:1410.6651 (2014)
64. Martinez, M., Monperrus, M.: Mining software repair models for reasoning on the search space of automated program fixing. Empir. Softw. Eng. 20(1), 176–205 (2015)
65. McAfee, A., Brynjolfsson, E., Davenport, T.H., Patil, D., Barton, D.: Big data: the management revolution. Harv. Bus. Rev. 90(10), 60–68 (2012)
This document was truncated here because it was created in the Evaluation Mode.
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
