
Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To remove all limitations, you can use Free Temporary License https://products.aspose.com/words/temporary-license/

See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/342834960
Cross-Scenario Performance Modelling for Big Data Ecosystems
Chapter · July 2020
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-50334-5_14
CITATIONS READS
0 47
2 authors, including:
Fatimah Alsayoud
Arab Open University - Saudi Arabia
5 PUBLICATIONS 2 CITATIONS
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Fatimah Alsayoud on 08 March 2023.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

Metadata of the chapter that will be visualized in SpringerLink
 
Book TitleArtificial Intelligence in HCISeries TitleChapter TitleCross-Scenario Performance Modelling for Big Data EcosystemsCopyright Year2020Copyright HolderNameSpringer Nature Switzerland AGAuthorFamily NameAlsayoudParticleGiven NameFatimahPrefixSuffixRoleDivisionDepartment of Computer ScienceOrganizationRyerson UniversityAddressToronto, CanadaEmailCorresponding AuthorFamily NameMiriParticleGiven NameAliPrefixSuffixRoleDivisionDepartment of Computer ScienceOrganizationRyerson UniversityAddressToronto, CanadaEmailAli.Miri@ryerson.caAbstractPerformance prediction is an essential aspect of several critical system design decisions, such as workload scheduling and resource planning. However, developing a model with higher prediction accuracy is a challenging task in big data systems due to the stack complexity and environmental heterogeneity. Workload modelling aims to simplify the connection between workloads factors and performance testing. Most of the workload models rely on a single scenario under test (SUT) method, where the trained and the evaluated data have the same distribution. However, a single SUT is not the ideal modelling method for big data workloads, as SUTs change frequently. Big data systems have a considerable amount of possible test scenarios that are generated from changing one or more elements in the testing environment, such as changing benchmarks, software versions, or cloud service types. To address this issue, we propose a cross- Scenario workload modelling method that aims to improve the workloads’ performance classification accuracy. The proposed approach adopts the Transfer Learning concept for reusing models cross different but related scenarios. In this work, we evaluate the proposed approach on multi real-world scenarios in Hadoop which is an example of big data system. The empirical results showed that the proposed approach is more accurate than SUT method.KeywordsPerformance - Modelling - Transfer learning - Big data ecosystems
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.

Cross-Scenario Performance Modelling
for Big Data Ecosystems
Fatimah Alsayoud and Ali Miri (B)
Department of Computer Science, Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada
Ali.Miri@ryerson.ca
Abstract. Performance prediction is an essential aspect of several crit-
ical system design decisions, such as workload scheduling and resource
planning. However, developing a model with higher prediction accuracy AQ1 is a challenging task in big data systems due to the stack complexity and environmental heterogeneity. Workload modelling aims to simplify the
connection between workloads factors and performance testing. Most of
the workload models rely on a single scenario under test (SUT) method,
where the trained and the evaluated data have the same distribution. AQ2 However, a single SUT is not the ideal modelling method for big data
workloads, as SUTs change frequently. Big data systems have a consid-
erable amount of possible test scenarios that are generated from chang-
ing one or more elements in the testing environment, such as changing
benchmarks, software versions, or cloud service types. To address this
issue, we propose a cross-Scenario workload modelling method that aims
to improve the workloads’ performance classification accuracy. The pro-
posed approach adopts the Transfer Learning concept for reusing models
cross different but related scenarios. In this work, we evaluate the pro-
posed approach on multi real-world scenarios in Hadoop which is an
example of big data system. The empirical results showed that the pro-
posed approach is more accurate than SUT method.
Keywords: Performance · Modelling · Transfer learning · Big data ecosystems
1	 Introduction
Big data ecosystems have become the main element in today’s technology. The ecosystems support big data sets and provide a variety of execution methods to meet system workload requirements. Big data ecosystems contain heterogeneous hardware and software, and they support a variety of data and workloads.
Designing optimal management policies and actions for big data ecosystems requires active monitoring and intelligent modeling. The model deign to test a particular objective like performance. Modeling for performance testing is one of the most successful management analyzing approaches. It can be used to measure the performance of a specific system object or a specific executing workload. In
 c Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020
H. Degen and L. Reinerman-Jones (Eds.): HCII 2020, LNCS 12217, pp. 1 18, 2020. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-50334-5_14

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Cross-Scenario Performance Modelling for Big Data Ecosystems 7
both cases, the performance testing design is impacted by the characteristics of the running workloads. For example, a Hard Disk Drive (HDD) delivers its best performance when it serves sequential access workloads and not random access workloads. Another example is that the Hadoop ecosystem performs better with analytic workloads than Online Transaction Processing (OLTP) workloads.
Workload performance modeling provides an approach to examine perfor- mance on a particular Scenario Under Test (SUT), where the scenario can include the deployment solution, the software version or the benchmark setup of a par- ticular Object Under Test (OUT). An example of OUT is Application Under Test (AUT). In general, the model result is a significant input element on many system decisions such as resource allocation. Therefore, it is crucial to design an accurate workload model as the performance test results reliability level is in line with the model accuracy.
Designing an accurate workload model for big data ecosystems is a chal- lenging task due to ecosystem complexities and heterogeneity. There are several possible SUTs and lots of different case studies in big data ecosystems. For example, it is typical for the same ecosystem to have multi software versions, test workload performance with different benchmarking tools and to be executed on various deployment solutions [1].
Different SUTs produce dissimilar workload distributions. Many workload modeling approaches assume that trained and evaluated data has a similar dis- tribution which is the same assumption as ML methods [2]. This assumption does not fit with big data ecosystem characteristics where the workload’s distribution is changed with many possible SUTs. Constructing a model for each SUT from scratch is time-consuming and resource intensive. A similar distribution assump- tion does not work well in many real-life cases. For example, in computer vision, there is a need to recognize numbers either coming from handwritten data or from a picture where they have dissimilar distributions.
A number of deep learning related methods such as Transfer Learning (TL) are developed to deal with the distribution similarity constraint. TL provides a method to transfer knowledge between domains with a dissimilar distribution or dissimilar feature space to avoid building a fresh model every time the SUT is changed and to improve the model’s accuracy. It is a well-used method in computer vision and natural language processing researchers. In this work, we will use TL to improve the performance model in a big data ecosystem.
1.1 Problem Statement and Motivation
The need for an accurate performance model remains even when the SUT or the executing workload is changed in a big data ecosystem. Designing an accurate model for a big data ecosystem such as Hadoop while considering SUT and workloads changing is a challenging task. Although there is a lot of Hadoop performance modelling work such as [3,4] and [5], most of it focuses on a single SUT. Only some consider multi SUT. For example, [6] provide a comprehensive analysis of how the workload behaviour, characteristic and distribution changes with SUTs change, and [7] designed a map task scheduling model for multi
cloud service under test. However, none of the work considers improving the performance model for a particular SUT by utilizing another SUT model.
In practice, users typically change the setups to meet individual or application needs. For example, a big data ecosystem may be moved from on-premise to the cloud when there is a need for more storage. Another example is changing the benchmark measurement tool to analyze different SW elements. Although SUTs usually change frequently on a big data ecosystem, the scenarios modification factors have not been considered on the big data performance modelling yet.
In this paper, we investigate the accuracy of a big data ecosystem perfor- mance model with the proposed cross-scenario transfer approach. This approach builds a performance model based on a particular SUT (Scenariosrc ) and then transfers the source knowledge into another SUT (Scenariotgt ) to improve the target model’s accuracy. A cross-scenario transfer approach adopts the inclusion method (multi scenarios) instead of the isolation (single scenario) method that is used by most existing performance modelling approaches. The inclusion method relaxes the sensitivity between model accuracy and the SUT characteristic. We demonstrate the approach with four scenarios: benchmarks, cloud service types, and Hadoop versions each with a couple of hypotheses. The experiential results show noticeable model accuracy improvement on the Scenariotgt with the pro- posed approach.
The paper is organized as follows. Sections 2 and 3 give a background of work- load modelling and performance modelling challenges. The proposed approach overview is presented in Sect. 4. The evaluated case studies and the experimen- tal result are discussed in Sect. 5. Finally, related work and the conclusion are presented in Sect. 6 and Sect. 7, respectively.
2	 Workload Modelling
In general, modelling provides a foundational methodology to abstract and rep- resent a particular aspect or relationship. Workload modelling establishes a con- nection between the workload characterization and the desired testing object. It helps to track how the workload and the corresponding testing object are changing. There are several possible algorithms for workload modelling such as predication, evolution, optimization and simulation. The algorithm is selected based on the model’s objective. It is important to select the right design factors and define an accurate workload model. This is because many critical manage- ment decisions are using it as one of their fundamental elements.
Today’s big data ecosystems serve a variety of workload types such as Online Transaction Processing (OLTP), Decision Support System (DSS), analytical and Machine Learning workloads. Each type has unique attributes and characteriza- tion. Moreover, the workload’s pattern, behaviour and distributions change with the execution environment. Workload behaviours are very sensitive to execution environment components, setups and capability.
Workload modelling provides a method to simplify the relationship between workload characterization and behaviours with the desired testing object for a
particular testing environment [8]. The testing object is the workload attributes that the model is designed to test it, such as performance, cost and resource utilization. The object measurement metric defined during the model construc- tion is based on the final objective. For example, performance can be measured based on the workload’s execution time or the throughput. Another essential aspect of workload modelling is the testing environment that affects workload behaviour and testing object values. In general, the model design is based on data from an environment with an aggregation of SWs and HWs. However, usu- ally only one of the environmental elements is used to define the testing factors. For instance, in the application performance model, the application represents the testing environment and performance represents the testing object. Usually, the test application is called Application Under Test (AUT). The application performance model or workload model for performance testing investigates the relationship between application workloads and the corresponding performance.
Each aspect of the workload model should be designed and selected care- fully since the accuracy of the design affects the accuracy of many management decisions and actions. The model can be used for descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytics where the analytics output, for example, produces perfor- mance insight or predicts resource provisioning. The workload model can also be used for simulating workloads [9] and evaluating a system configuration [10]. Indeed, the workload-aware concept becomes a common aspect of different man- agement architecture.
Workloads have different behaviours and patterns that change based on many factors like workload structure and the testing environment. For example, the behaviour of database workloads is different than the ML workloads. The last one is more complicated, requiring more resources and taking more time than the first one. The challenge occurs when a particular environment serves both types of workloads which is a normal situation in today’s applications. The workload- aware concept is adopted on the system to serve each workload with its need, and define the management decision and action differently for each workload.
3	 Big Data Performance Modelling Challenges
Modeling big data workloads for performance testing or in short performance modelling is a challenging task due to the ecosystem’s complexity and the vari- ability of the workload. It is challenging to design an accurate model for a big data ecosystem that has many interacting components and for workloads with very wide distributions. Traditional performance modelling assumes that data comes from a single SUT and has the same distribution. Both assumptions do not meet the need of big data ecosystems. Big data ecosystems have a complex architecture with several stages, multi-configuration parameters and multi SW elements. These ecosystems contain many highly interactive stages such as com- puting, resource management and a distributed file system which control how the workload is executed, how many resources are allocated to it and where it should be placed, respectively. Each of the controlling decisions impacts the workload’s
overall performance. Furthermore, the ecosystems have a massive amount of pos- sible configuration parameters. Each of them has multiple possible values and each of the values affects the performance differently.
The SW elements in big data ecosystems are dependent on each other and some of the elements interact with elements from other ecosystems. For example, the Hadoop resource management element (YARN) [11] is used by many other systems such as Spark [12] and Storm [13]. Also, the Hadoop file system (HDFS) is used by OpenStack Swift and Amazon S3 [14]. The SW characteristics and the interaction have an implication on workload behaviour and therefore workload performance.
Each aspect of the big data ecosystem architecture impacts the performance of the workloads and can cause a change in workload distributions. It is hard to keep track of how each aspect of the ecosystem impacts performance. As written by [1] “we do not know much about real-life use cases of big data systems at all”.
Two well-known modelling methods are used for simplifying big data ecosys- tem complexity: white box and black box methods. White box applies when the internal details are essential factors for decision making like considering configu- ration values for configuration tuning [15] or configuration optimization [16]. In contrast, the black box method does not consider the internal ecosystem details, and it is used by most work that focuses on the testing output instead of ecosys- tem details. Most of the black box methods and many of the white box methods follow the original modelling assumption of using a single SUT with the same distribution. Such assumptions would require building a considerable number of models from scratch to cover the possible big data scenarios. The proposed approach in this work benefits from the pre-built models on constructing a new one to improve model accuracy, and save model construction time and resources.
3.1 Scenario Under Test (SUT) Modelling
Most performance modelling approaches rely on a single SUT where data is collected from the same environment setups. For example, if the desired test object is an application, then the model is built based on collecting or simulating data from a particular application. Usually, the model built for a particular application cannot work as accurately for another application.
The performance modelling single SUT requirement is coming from the algo- rithm’s restriction used on the model. The most used algorithms in performance modelling are analytic and Ml algorithms. Both types of algorithms require the trained data and the evaluated data to have the same distributions and feature space. To guarantee those requirements, the performance model expected data needs to come from a single SUT.
The issue is that most of today’s case studies deal with changing the original scenario for different reasons. The model’s accuracy cannot be guaranteed when any of the SUT factors are changed. For this reason, in most cases, the whole model has to be reconstructed when any change happens. A large number of models are needed to cover all of the possible scenarios.
Even though a single SUT method gets great attention from both industrial and academic communities, it has several limitations such as lack of supporting diverse scenarios. It requires contracting many models and isolating the built model from the other related models. It consumes time and resources, and is sensitive to workload distributions. A single SUT limitation motivates us to define the cross-scenario method that can support multi-scenarios in big data ecosystems and improve performance model accuracy.
4	 Proposed Approach Overview

Fig.1. Cross-Scenarios transfer performance modelling
The proposed approach overview is illustrated in Fig. 1 and the procedures are listed below:
– The examined dataset is Hadoop execution trace-data that is provided by the ALOJA open-access dataset [17]. The dataset has over 16.000 Hadoop executions with various setups like workload type, benchmark type, Hadoop versions, cloud service types and cloud providers.
– To provide the cross-scenarios transfer method with the correct data, both the Source Scenariosrc and Target Scenariotgt have to follow the same prepa- ration process. For example, the process includes normalizing numeric data, coding categorical data and classifying the target output.
– Once the dataset is prepared, the Scenariosrc and the Scenariotgt are defined according to the desired hypothesis. For each examined hypothesis, the defi- nition of the Source and Target scenarios are specified in Sect. 5.
– The Cross-Scenarios transfer method applies for each formulated hypothe- sis. The method contains three steps: build the source model according to Scenariosrc, build the target model according to Scenariotgt , and build the cross-scenarios transfer model according to the built source model and the Scenariotgt.
– Source and Target models are constructed with Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP).
– The built source model knowledge is used to build a cross-scenarios transfer model for the Scenariotgt.
– The accuracy of results for the target (stand-alone) model and the target (cross- scenarios transfer) are analyzed for each hypothesis.
– We execute each hypothesis three times to calculate the average result of stand-alone and Transfer Learning models.
– To study the impact of sample size on the model’s accuracy, we examined each hypothesis with six sample size 50,150,250,350,450,and500 that represents in the experiments as a ratio.
4.1 Methodology
Transfer learning is defined to relax distribution similarity constraints on trained and the evaluated data. TL assumes that the trained dataset and the validated dataset have different but related distributions. The TL method can be applied to almost all of the learning models such as classification, regression, and clus- tering. It provides a way to transfer knowledge between different learning tasks or between different domains. There are two types of domains: Source and Tar- get. The Source domain is where the knowledge transfers from and the Target domain is where the knowledge transfers to.
5	 Case Studies and Experimental Result
In order to evaluate the proposed approach, three different case studies are defined as Hadoop software versions, benchmark types and cloud service types. Each case study contains real-life scenarios that are used to determine the exam- ined cross-scenario transfer.
5.1 Software Versions
Commercial and open-source software companies produce new software versions either to add new features or fix the software bugs. This can happen at any stage of the software life cycle. The frequency of producing new versions is in accor- dance with the software design model. In general, open-source software, such as big data ecosystems, release new minor and major versions more repeatedly than commercial software.
Versions have different configurations and therefore, the trace data that is produced is different in products. The trace-based method is the most used work- load modelling method. Following how versions change is not a straightforward
Table 1. Experimental results: Hadoop versions hypothesis
 
Hypothesis(Hadoop-1.0.3 → Hadoop-1.2.1)(Hadoop 1 → Hadoop 2)(Hadoop-1.2.1 → Hadoop-2.7.1)Sample ratioStand-aloneTLStand-aloneTLStand-aloneTL10%0.236 ± 0.0430.371 ± 0.1000.270 ± 0.0400.391 ± 0.0170.243 ± 0.0700.278 ± 0.06330%0.310 ± 0.035This document was truncated here because it was created in the Evaluation Mode.
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
