ICACT Transactions on Advanced Communications Technology (TACT) Vol. 7, Issue 1, January 2018 1081
Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To remove all limitations, you can use Free Temporary License https://products.aspose.com/words/temporary-license/
An Improvement of a Checkpoint-based Distributed Testing Technique 
on a Big Data Environment 
Bhuridech Sudsee, Chanwit Kaewkasi 
School of Computer Engineering 
Suranaree University of Technology, Nakhon Ratchasrima, Thailand, 30000 m5741861@g.sut.ac.th, chanwit@sut.ac.th 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Copyright $Ò 2018 GiRI (Global IT Research Institute) 
ICACT Transactions on Advanced Communications Technology (TACT) Vol. 7, Issue 1, January 2018 1086
 
Abstract—  The  advancement  of  storage  technologies  and the  fast-growing  number  of  generated  data  have  made  the world moved into the Big Data era. In this past, we had many data  mining  tools  but  they  are  inadequate  to  process Data-Intensive  Scalable  Computing  workloads.  The  Apache Spark  framework  is  a  popular  tool  designed  for  Big  Data processing. It leverages in-memory processing techniques that make Spark up to 100 times faster than Hadoop. Testing this kind of Big Data program is time consuming. Unfortunately, developers lack a proper testing framework, which cloud help assure  quality  of  their  data-intensive  processing  programs while saving development time and storage usages. 
We  propose  Distributed  Test  Checkpointing  (DTC)  for Apache  Spark.  DTC  applies  unit  testing  to  the  Big  Data software  development  life  cycle  and  reduce  time  spent  for each  testing  loop  with  checkpoint.  By  using  checkpoint technique, DTC keeps quality of Big Data processing software while keeps an inexpensive testing cost by overriding original Spark mechanism so that developers no pain to learn how to use DTC. Moreover, DTC has no addition abstraction layers. Developers can upgrade to a new version of Spark seamlessly. From  the  experimental  results,  we  found  that  in  the subsequence rounds of unit testing, DTC dramatically speed the testing time up to 450-500% faster.  In  case  of  storage, DTC can cut unnecessary data off and make the storage 19.7 times saver than the original checkpoint of Spark. DTC can be used either in case of JVM termination or testing with random values. 
Keyword—  Distributed Checkpointing;  Apache  Spark;  Big  Data Testing; Software Testing;
I. INTRODUCTION
THseEnsorsinc,reIoTasi ngdeviacnd es adind verstheity faof st-growelecitng roninumc debevirsc eof s, Internet users have been generating tremendous amount of 
data recently. They are not only the large amount of data 
——————————————————————— Manuscript received December 27th, 2017. This work was supported by Suranaree University of Technology, and a follow-up of the invited journal to the accepted & presented paper of the 20th International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology (ICACT2018), 
Bhuridech Sudsee is with School of Computer Engineering, Suranaree University of Technology, Nakhon Ratchasrima, Thailand (corresponding author phone: +66-44-22-4422; e-mail: m5741861@g.sut.ac.th). 
Chanwit Kaewkasi is with School of Computer Engineering, Suranaree University  of  Technology,  Nakhon  Ratchasrima,  Thailand  (e-mail: chanwit@sut.ac.th). 
but  their  structures  are  also  complex  as  well.  This complexity  makes  the  traditional  data  mining  tools inadequate to manage today’s data [1]. 
The MapReduce [2] programming model has induced the development of many frameworks such as Apache Hadoop [4], Map-reduce-merge [5] and Apache Spark [6], which aim to process data intensive tasks. Developers only need to rewrite their programming logic in the form of map and reduce functions in order to process data on a MapReduce framework. These functions will be automatically managed by the framework’s default configuration. This mechanism makes  the  MapReduce  framework  easy  to  use.  At  its simplest form, a MapReduce program usually starts by a map function creating key/value pairs from the input. These intermediate key/value pairs are then passed to a reduce function  to  produce  the  final  results.  The  MapReduce model  is  parallel  by  nature.  It  is  designed  to  allow developers  to  run  MapReduce  programs  for  high performance  computing  jobs  using  a  commodity  cluster, built from low-cost hardwares. With this kind of the cluster architecture, we can handle massive amount of  data  and process them on numerous cluster nodes without a single point of failure [3]. 
Although  the  MapReduce  model  is  easy  to  use  for software development, but it is quite tricky to test software written by the MapReduce model. Software testing is a vital part of the development process. Testing is usually 25-50% of  the  overall  cost  [8].  We  found  that  the  current mechanism is not enough to assure quality for Big  Data processing  programs.  Unit  testing  is  a  software  testing technique which properly leads to better levels of quality. However, tools like Scalatest[9] or jUnit[10] have their own limitations to use with a MapReduce framework like Spark. For example, SparkContext and SparkSession objects must be  instantiated  only  once  for  each  running  Java  Virtual Machine (JVM) to avoid unexpected testing results [12]. Spark-testing-base  [11]  also  does  not  have  a  testing mechanism for Spark. Without modification, it cannot work on a Spark cluster because if its inability to distribute class files across worker nodes. There aforementioned techniques are  not  suitable  for  Spark  simply  because  they  are  not designed to test programs that distributelly  process  large amount of data. 
Test-driven  development  (TDD)  is  a  software development technique that helps developers to focus on 
writing a specific test at a time. It additionally allows code improvement while preserving correctness according to the specification.  TDD  workflow  consists  of  the  following steps, (1) writing a minimum test (2) writing codes to just make  the  test  passed,  and  (3)  refactoring  to  remove unnecessary codes while still making the current test passed [13]. We call these steps a TDD workflow herein this paper. Applying TDD to data intensive programs is difficult due to the nature of workloads, which need to process on a cluster. So, developers require a special tool to help shorten each loop of the TDD workflow. 
Spark has cache, persist and checkpoint methods to help mitigate  job  failure.  These  mechanisms  however  do  not help software testing process much. The main reason is that a cluster state cached or persisted by them does not survive across  runs  of  JVMs.  A  cluster  state  saved  by  the checkpoint method does survive on disk but unfortunately it cannot be retrieved back by a newly started JVM [14, 15]. 
In this paper, we present Distributed Test Checkpointing (DTC), a technique that leverages the checkpoint technique to enhance software testing for data intensive jobs. With DTC,  developers  can  increase  productivity  when  testing their  software  on  a  distributed  cluster  repeatedly.  DTC applied a hash function on each data partition of a Resilient Distributed  Datasets  (RDD)  [18]  to  use  an  identifier. Modification of an RDD or a Dataset can be traced by the hashed  number.  The  testcase  that  uses  the  RDD  is  also hashed at the bytecode level. Combining these techniques, DTC is found to reduce testing time and storage required by checkpointing  significantly  compared  to  the  original Spark’s checkpointing technique. 
The remaining of this paper is organized  as  followed. Section II discusses related works, including Apache Spark. Section III presents the design and internal mechanism of DTC. Section IV presents the system  architecture  of  the cluster  used  by  our  experiments,  and  the  experimental results. This paper then ends with  conclusion  and  future works in Section V. 
II. BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
A. Apache Spark 
Spark is a data intensive processing framework focusing on in-memory data processing [6], which is implemented in the form of Resilient Distributed Dataset (RDD) [18]. RDD is designed to take care of the data flow and handle the processing mechanism. An RDD could be created using one of  the  following  methods  (1)  reading  data  from  file  (2) parallelizing  collection  in  the  driver  program  (3) transforming from another RDD (4) and by transforming back from a persisted RDD [6]. An RDD comprises with two  kinds  of  command,  transformations  and  actions.  A transformation  command  transforms  an  RDD  to  another RDD. These commands are map, filter and groupByKey, for example. Another set of commands are actions, which are collect and count, for example. An RDD keeps all previous transformation  inside  itself.  This  direct  acyclic  graph  of transformation is known as lineage. The beginning of the real computation occurs only when an action is called. This is the lazy evaluation nature of Spark. 
A mechanism for failure recovery that helps an RDD to resume the processing without re-computation from scratch are  methods  such  as  cache,  persist  and  checkpoint.  The cache method uses persistency at MEMORY_ONLY, while the persist method has several levels of persistency. The checkpoint method, in contrast, uses the technique which save data onto a reliable storage, such as HDFS, Amazon S3 or Ceph. An RDD is usually cached or persisted during its  computation  to  avoid  re-computation  previous  steps [15]. 
The checkpoint technique is  also  applicable  for  Spark Streaming because it truncates the internal lineage, so the RDD does not need to knowledge of its parent. However, this mechanism is not designed for software testing. The re-computation is still required to start from the beginning when the testcase is re-run. The rerunning of the testcase destroys a Block Manager inside an Executor. This Block Manage  is  responsible  for  keeping  cached  and  persisted data. The new Driver program and the testcase therefore is not able to access the location of checkpoints. 
In addition, Spark has introduced the Dataframe API in 1.3  and  Dataset  in  1.6.  Both  abstractions  can  be  used interchangeably  because  Dataset[Row]  is  the  type  safer version of DataFrame. A dataset is also convertible to an RDD. In the case of DTC proposed in this paper, we read and write data directly without triggering any computation of related RDDs. 
B. Debugging framework for Spark 
A technique used to improve quality of the software is debugging. Developers usually debug to observe certain set of  variables  they  are  interested.  However,  in  the Data-intensive Scalable Computing (DISC), the debugging process is difficult as data are computed distributedly on a cluster. 
BigDebug  [7]  is  a  tool  designed  to  helps  Spark’s developers deal with debugging a Big Data program. There is a downside that the tool requires user’s interaction during the  debugging  process.  Those  interactions  make  the debugging  more  difficult  than  those  of  normal  programs because the Big Data programs are distributed by nature. Moreover, a BigDebug program cannot tackle the problem when the RDD being debug requires changes. The whole debugging process needs to start over in that case. In case of the  developer  changing  codes  on-the-fly,  the  RDD  will become in-consistent as some partitions of the  RDD  has been processed by the old version of  codes,  while  other partitions will be processed by the new codes. BigDebug support Spark up to 1.2.1 as the time writing. 
C. Checkpoint implementation for Spark 
Researchers have been employed the checkpoint of Spark in many ways to improve its efficiency, as follows. 
Flint  [26]  was  created  atop  the  original  checkpoint technique of Spark. It aims at applying checkpoint and store their data on transient instances to reduce the VM usage cost. A transient instance in a kind of low-cost computing unit, which can be recalled anytime by its cloud provider. Flint solves this problem by writing an RDD’s partitions to an HDFS, which is operated on on-demand instances. We found  that  this  implementation  lacks  a  mechanism  to prevent re-calculation when JVM is terminated. In addition, 
their checkpoint will be saved automatically so developers need to prepare a huge amount of space in order to prevent the  full  of  storage,  which  can  lead  to  the  failure  of  the whole system. 
TR-Spark [27] implements the similar approach as Flint. The  difference  is  that  TR-Spark  allows  fined-granularity checkpoints  at  task-level.  By  leveraging  this  level  of checkpoints,  the  storage  usage  cloud  be  reduced  in comparison  to  checkpoint  the  whole  RDD.  However, TR-Spark makes it difficult to use as developers need to collect the information of VM failure to let it  know  the failure probability. TR-Spark does not deal with changes of the Driver program. 
Automatic Spark Checkpointing (ASC) [25] was designed to help analyze the trade-off between RDD checkpointing and  its  restore.  ASC  performs  this  computation  by estimating them from an RDD lineage. Nevertheless, this technique  does  not  support  checkpoint  across  JVM termination.  It  also  lacks  the  ability  to  recognize  the similarity or identity of an RDD. 
Spark-flow  [24]  aims  to  mitigate  the  effect  of  JVM termination  for  checkpoint  restoration.  It  makes  use  of Distributed Collection (DC), a library similar to the Dataset API. DC is able to analyze an RDD at the bytecode level with ASM. It can identify the location of checkpoint calls, inside an anonymous function. It also uses the MD5 hash function  to  help  detect  changes  at  the  bytecode  level. However, DC has some downside as the following. First, when calling checkpoint on a DC, the data is re-read again after  checkpointing.  Second,  when  restoring  from checkpoint,  the  action  count  will  be  triggered,  so  the re-computation  kicks  in.  Finally,  computation  is  mainly done on the Driver machine, so the mechanism is actually not distributed. This often causes Out-of-Memory exception inside the Driver program and it stops working.  
1  val data = sc.parallelize(Array(1,2,3,4,5)) 2  val distData = data.map(x => (x,1)) 
3  distData.dtCheckpoint() 
4  distData.count()  
5  distData.collect() 
Fig. 1. Example of a dtCheckpoint call on an RDD 

Fig. 2. The dtCheckpointing mechanism inside DTC 
III. DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
Spark stores the RDD transformations in the form of a lineage graph a.k.a. the logical execution plan. When an action  is  triggered  for  a  certain  RDD,  its  job  will  be submitted to the DAG Scheduler to transform the RDD’s lineage into a directed acyclic graph, whose a vertex is an 
RDD partition and edge is a transformation. After that the staging process will be kicked in. This staging process will be  started  from  the  final  action  going  backwards  to  the beginning of the RDD. However, in the real execution, the process will be performed from the beginning of the RDD forwardly to the final action. After the staging, the system obtains a set of Stages and Tasks. 
A checkpoint of an RDD however must be done before the first action is performed. From the source code in the Fig. 1, when a program starts to process an array of integer 1 to 5, the array will be passed as a parameter of method parallelize  of  class  SparkContext.  This  result  in  a ParallelCollectionRDD stored in variable data. At line 2, each element from the data RDD is mapped with 1 using the  map  method  as  a  key/value  pair.  The  result  is  a MapPartitionsRDD stored in variable distData. At line 3, method  dtCheckpoint  is  invoked.  Please  note  that  the original  Spark  and  DTC  both  use  the  lazy  evaluation mechanism,  this  means  that  the  checkpoint  method  only marks at a certain point over the DAG, where checkpoints will happen there. At line 4, command distData.count() is the  first  action.  When  this  first  action  is  triggered,  the checkpoint  is  not  yet  created.   The  computation  then  is started from the beginning of the RDD to the mark point. After  that,  the  checkpoint  is  stored  at  the  first  upper directory level as a hash value generated by the mechanism of  DTC.  At  the  line  no  5,  method  distData.collect()  is invoked as the second action. The system will then check backwards from the action to the beginning of the RDD. This time the system will find a checkpoint already existed because there is a directory whose name matches with the hash.  When  the  DAG  Scheduler  starts  to  transform  the lineage,  it  uses  the  data  directly  from  the  checkpoint without re-computation. Please also note that action count() and  collect()  belong  to  the  different  jobs.  The  result computed by count() will not be included as an input for collect(), despite their order of execution. 
In Scala, it allows us to implement a new feature for a class by creating an Implicit Class then mixes it in to the existing  classes,  like  RDD  or  Dataset.  The  DTC mechanisms proposed in this paper are implemented using that technique. With DTC as an Implicit Class, developers could still use all existing properties and behavior of an RDD,  while  having  an  additional  method  from  DTC. Developers are also able to upgrade the Spark framework to the newer versions without rewriting this mechanism. DTC is  more  suitable  for  testing  than  Spark-flow,  which  has many  abstraction  layers.  These  abstraction  makes  it difficult to enhance capability of Spark-flow.  
A. DtCheckpointing 
This mechanism works when the method dtCheckpoint of an RDD or a DataSet is called. This call marks an RDD and also  starts  the  Hashing  RDD  mechanism  to  obtain  a directory  path  from  hash  transformation.  If  there  is  no directory matched the hash value, it means that the system never  created  that  checkpoint.  After  the  creation  of  the directory content of the RDD will be stored inside of it. But if the directory exists, the system will read the content as the data of the RDD. In Fig. 2, when an RDD is created using the parallelize method and is transformed with map followed by an invocation of dtCheckpoint. The sub-system 
DtCheckpointing kicks in to mark points in the RDD for later storing when action count is called. 
We usually perform the test on a Spark Cluster with SBT, which is an interactive build tool to help develop software with Java or Scala. SBT allows us to write a build file using Scala-based  Domain  Specific  Language.  It  manages  a program  dependency  with  Apache  Ivy.  With  DTC,  we modify test commands of the SBT namely test, test-only, and test-quick to support not only the local execution but also in the real working cluster. We solve the problem of ClassNotFoundException  and  NoClassDefFoundError  by making a fat jar via custom SBT task. So, we introduce testOnCluster for testing every testcase, testOnlyOnCluster to test a specific testcase, and testQuickOnCluster to test a certain testcase which may be failed from last time, or never tested  or  need  re-computation.  Our  modification  to  SBT allows the new mode of testing on the real cluster. 
B. Hashing an RDD 
Hash function is a one-way function which can be used to check data modification. Eve one bit of data is changed this function notices that modification. In this paper, we will compare  MD5,  SHA-1  and  SHA-256  because  these algorithms have various speed of hash and resource usage. 
This technique of the DTC framework is able to track the change of an RDD because the generated transformations. So we can use this mechanism to detect modification of any transformation back to the original RDD. When an action is triggered,  the  DTC  framework  detects  all  RDD dependencies and prepares a clean bytecode available by the CleanF property of the RDD, following by preparing other  Java  bytecode’s  files  which  related  to  the dependencies. In preparation stage, DTC uses ASM, a tool to manage a Java bytecode [17], which Scala internally uses it for the compilation mechanism. With a ASM, the DTC’s hashing an RDD mechanism can access Java class file at runtime  and  de-serialize  them  for  reverse  engineering propose.  DTC  needs  to  remove  some  brittle  information such as LINENUMBER or serialVersionUID from a class file.  With  this  information  filtered  out,  we  can  detect changes of an RDD or DataSet even when the line numbers have been changed. 
The result of class file analysis in preparation stage, after unnecessary  dependencies  was  eliminated,  these dependencies  will  compute  hash  number  and  input  data, which the origin of an RDD will compute hash number also. The  computation  is  distributed  computing  with  Spark’s accumulator in the first level hash number computation will 
SET hash_array = empty array of string 
IF (HASH_INPUT_DATA = true) THEN 
  READ each data partition from (RDD or DataSet)   COMPUTE hash of each data partition 
  APPEND hashes to hash_array 
ENDIF 
Fig. 3. Pseudo codes of the mechanism of Hashing an RDD 
compute hash number of input data for every partition, and then  collect  and  reorder  result  because  unpredictable computation time. After that, the DTC will compute hash number of sorted hash number again. Fig. 3, illustrates the steps  of  hashing  mechanism  please  note  that  the computation of input data is an option that can specify with dtCheckpoint(true). 
IV. EXPERIMENTS
A. Cluster configuration 
The  experiments  presented  in  this  paper  have  been conducted on a Spark cluster consisted of 10 nodes. Each node  is  an  Intel  Core  i5-4570  Quad-core  with  4  GB  of RAM.  The  drive  node  is  an  Intel  Xeon  E5-2650V3 Deca-core with 8GB of RAM. We use Apache Spark 2.0 for the  experiments  along  with  Ceph  as  the  distributed  file system over these 10 nodes. The Ceph storage is 10 TB. The system architecture is illustrated in Fig. 4. 
TABLE I 
COMPUTATION PROGRAMS AND INPUT DATA OF EXPERIMENTAL Program  Input dataset 
Wordcount  31 GB of Wikipedia 
Triangle Counting  875,713 vertices and 5,105,039 edges PageRank  875,713 vertices and 5,105,039 edges Pi Estimation  109 times 

Fig. 4. The cluster architecture used by the experiments  
B. Methodology 
For  the  experiments,  we  use  a  MapReduce  program Wordcount on 31 GB data dump of Wikipedia, Triangle Counting  with  Google  Web  Graph  [28],  PageRank  with Google Web Graph and the last one is Pi Estimation with one billion times. Each program with its input dataset is shown in Table I. The Wordcount Program splits sentences into array of words and counts them using both RDD and Dataset  (or  DC  in  case  of  Spark-flow)  with  different checkpoint  mechanisms.  We  tested  each  checkpoint mechanism  10  times  continuously  and  measured  both  in space  and  time  perspectives.  Moreover,  we  tested  5 additional with JVM termination. Then we started the JVM again to test the recovery process of checkpoints. 
 Table II shows the comparison of checkpoint mechanism properties. If we do not use checkpoint, the system does not have the fault  tolerance  property.  If  we  use  the  original Spark, it is not suitable for testing because its checkpoint mechanism does not work well in the test environment. In case  of  Spark-flow  it  does  not  work  on  the  cluster environment  out-of-the-box.  DTC,  on  the  other  hand,  is designed  to  address  these  problems  in  the  testing 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Copyright $Ò 2018 GiRI (Global IT Research Institute) 
ICACT Transactions on Advanced Communications Technology (TACT) Vol. 7, Issue 1, January 2018 1088
TABLE II 
FEATURE COMPARISON BETWEEN CONFIGURATIONS
Failure  More abstraction  Prevent re-calculation  Suitable for 
Method  Cluster 
tolerance  layer  from beginning  Testing 
No-Checkpoint  No  No  No  No  Yes Spark Original  Yes  No  Yes  Not Suitable  Yes Spark-flow  Yes  Yes  Yes  Yes  No DTC  Yes  No  Yes  Yes  Yes 
TABLE III 
THE COMBINATION OF ALL EXPERIMENTAL CONFIGURATIONS
Type  Checkpoint Data Format  Hash Algorithm Configuration  RDD  DataSet  DC  Java  Kryo  Avro  Parquet  MD5  SHA1  SHA256 
No-checkpoint  √  √  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - Spark Original  √  √  -  √  -  -  -  -  -  - Spark-flow  -  -  √  -  -  -  √  √  -  - DTC  √  √  -  √  √  √  √  √  √  √ 
environment. So, DTC provides the better environment to  that we can multiply by 4 to roughly results Pi number. We support unit testing.   tested 5 cases then stop the JVM, after that we re-run these 
Table  II  shows  a  brief  differentiation  of  comparison  5 cases again on RDD. 
method that we will experiment. That meant, if we have no 
C. Experimental results (consecutively 10 cases) 
checkpoint it will lack failure tolerance, the Spark original 
checkpoint  insufficient  to  testing.  The  Spark-flow  push  From the experiments, we start discussing in the case of developer in more abstraction layer by create a higher level  no hashing input data, denoted not-hashinput by running of a DataSet and it not work on cluster naturally. In Table  consecutively 10 cases. In this case the input will not be III,  we  show  the  combination  of  all  experimental  verified by hashing functions before the program starts. We configurations. Accordingly, the DTC introduce to rectify  assume  that  development  and  during  the  tests.  The that plain.  experimental results are show in Fig. 5. At the first run, 
We compared with  MapReduce  Wordcount  algorithms  DTC  and  the  original-checkpoint  mechanism  are 
on Wikipedia 31 GB with separating each word from each  all  slow  with  insignificant  difference.  The other with white space. And then, we filtered only word  DTC-Java-SHA1 is slowest. It uses 636 seconds slightly 
occurred  more  than  10  million  times,  after  that  asserted  TABLE IV 
with the most word occurred. We consecutively repeated  CHECKPOINT’S STORAGE USAGE OF AN RDD 
these steps 10 cases and performed testing on 5 cases then  Storage usage  Size  Unit stopped the JVM. After that we re-run these 5 cases again  No-checkpoint  0  MB 
on both RDD and DataSet.  Spark original checkpoint  9.870  MB 
Next,  we  compared  with  Triangle  Counting  Program  DTC-Java-with-hash  0.987  MB 
which  gathers  the  number  of  vertices  whose  has  two  DTC-Java-without-hash  0.987  MB adjacent  vertices  with  an  edge  between  them.  And  then  DTC-Kryo-with-hash  0.501  MB perform  PageRank  Program  to  ranks  members  onto  the  DTC-Kryo-without-hash  0.501  MB 
graph.  Input  of  these  programs  came  from  Google  Web 
Graph. with 875,713 vertices and 5,105,039 edges, testing  TABLE V 
on 5 cases then stop the JVM, after that re-run these 5 cases  CHECKPOINT’S STORAGE USAGE OF DATASET
again on RDD.  Storage usage  Size  Unit Finally, we compared the Pi Estimation program by using  No-checkpoint  0  MB Monte Carlo algorithm shows in (1) [29].  Spark original checkpoint  9.860  MB DTC-Avro-with-hash  0.987  MB 
DTC-Avro-without-hash  0.987  MB 2%/3&4*ℎ/ 5,)* -)%-./ DTC-Parquet-with-hash  0.993  MB 
ℙ($%&'()*ℎ), -)%-./) = 2%/3&4*ℎ/ 6753%/ DTC-Parquet-without-hash  0.993  MB Spark-flow  9.930  MB 
∬{)*+,*-.}1 %&%'
=
∬{0.-),,-.}1%&%' different  from  original-checkpoint.  The π (1)    no-checkpoint configuration does not have this startup 
= 4 overhead, so it run at 136 seconds on average. For the first 
The  algorithm  randomly  generated  two  values  which  run, All DTC and the original-checkpoint are 4.7 represent to coordinate x and y of unit circle (so both x and  times  or  slower  than  the  no-checkpoint  mechanism. y  are  between  -1  to  1).  After  that,  trying  to  addition  However, all DTC configurations are significantly faster in between square magnitude of x and square magnitude of y  the subsequence runs.  
and if that result less than or equal to 1 will be count as fall  Fig. 6 shows the comparison between cases of applying in the unit circle. That number will use to represent π/4, so  hash functions over input data to allow the system to detect 
 
Fig. 5. Comparison of checkpoint time of RDDs without hashing inputs using the  Fig. 6. Comparison of checkpoint time of RDDs with hashing inputs using the 
Wordcount program. (10 cases consecutively)  Wordcount program. (10 cases consecutively) 
 
Fig. 7. Comparison of checkpoint time of DataSet,including Spark-flow without  Fig. 8. Comparison of checkpoint time of DataSet,including Spark-flow with 
hashing inputs using the Wordcount program (10 cases consecutively).  hashing inputs using the Wordcount program (10 cases consecutively). 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Copyright $Ò 2018 GiRI (Global IT Research Institute) 
ICACT Transactions on Advanced Communications Technology (TACT) Vol. 7, Issue 1, January 2018 
changes of the input. It shows that DTC mechanisms are slower  than  no-checkpoint  and original-checkpoint  only  in  the  first  run.  In  the subsequence runs, DTC mechanisms make the test s faster than  those  run  by  no-checkpoint  and original-checkpoint.  We  found  that DTC-Kryo-SHA1 is slowest in the first run. It uses 908 seconds  on  average,  while  no-checkpoint  uses  136 seconds and original-checkpoint  use 636 seconds. 
In the subsequence runs, DTC mechanism uses around 85 seconds  on  average.  It  is  significantly  faster  that  both no-checkpoint and original-checkpoint, which 
is 60%  
In  the  first  run  with  hash  input,  the  fastest  DTC mechanism is DTC-Java-SHA256 it is 480% slower than no-checkpoint  and  24%  slower  than original-checkpoint. In the subsequence runs, this mechanism  is  40%  faster  than  no-checkpoint  and 590% faster than original-checkpoint. Other cases 
are in similar trends. 
In case of DataSet, we found the similar trends as the case of RDD. During the first run DTC mechanisms are slowest, and significantly faster in subsequence runs. Fig. 7 and  Fig.  8  show  the  comparison  between  checkpoint mechanisms for the DataSet without hashing input and with hashing input, respectively. We also include Spark-flow 
in these experiments. We found that  Spark-flow  uses 752 seconds at the first run, while DTC-Parquet-MD5 
uses  606  seconds,  so  DTC  is  24%  faster  than Spark-flow. In case of hash  input  data,  DTC  is  40% slower than Spark-flow for the first run. However, in the subsequence  runs,  DTC  dramatically  reduces  time spending, according aforementioned trends.  
The  mechanism  of  checkpoint  usually  requires  use  of storage. The storage usage comparison is then presented in Table IV. According to the table, DTC with Java serializer uses the storage only one-tenth of those used by the original Spark checkpoint. In case of DTC with Kryo, it uses storage only 5% of the original-checkpoint.
This storage usages are similar for DataSet. According to Table IV, DTC with Avro format  uses  only  10%  of  the original storage. In case of DTC with Parquet format, it uses only  11%  of  the  original  storage.  Comparison  of  these results  with  Spark-flow,  we  are  roughly  at  the  same ration. 
DTC  is  designed  to  allow  re-usability  of  RDDs  and DataSets.  It  can  traverse  and  detect  change  of  the dependency  of  each  RDD  or  a  DataSet.  From  the experiments, we have found that DTC has a larger overhead    than  the  mechanism  of  the  Original  Spark  only  when  a testcases are in first run. When the testcases are in the later runs, DTC makes them 5-6 times faster than running by the Original  Spark  and  Spark-flow.  Moreover,  DTC  uses 
disk  space  8-9  times  less  than  both  implementations  as shown in Table IV and Table V. 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Copyright $Ò 2018 GiRI (Global IT Research Institute) 
ICACT Transactions on Advanced Communications Technology (TACT) Vol. 7, Issue 1, January 2018 1089
(a)  (b) 
Fig. 9. Comparison of checkpoint time of RDDs using the Wordcount program (5 cases with JVM termination) while (a) without hashing inputs and (b) with hashing inputs. 
(a)  (b) 
Fig. 10. Comparison of checkpoint time of DataSet using the Wordcount program (5 cases with JVM termination) while (a) without hashing inputs and (b) with hashing inputs. 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Copyright $Ò 2018 GiRI (Global IT Research Institute) 
ICACT Transactions on Advanced Communications Technology (TACT) Vol. 7, Issue 1, January 2018 
D. Experimental results (5 cases with JVM termination) 
In this  section,  we  discuss  the  experimental  results  in case of running 5 cases consecutively, then stopping the JVM, after that the experimental cases were re-run again. Its behavior on different frameworks were observed. 
Firstly, we discuss the result of the Wordcount program on RDD. We  found  that  DTC-Java-SHA256  used  542 seconds at the first run in case of running if before stopping JVM, so DTC is 9% faster than original-checkpoint which uses 596 seconds. After stopping JVM or closing the program  then  re-running  the  test  cases,  DTC  with  all settings used only few seconds to recover checkpoint, while other frameworks used hundreds of second, as showed in Fig 9. In Fig 9, the dashed line is the first running before JVM terminating and the solid line is the second running after restarting the JVM. 
In the case of DataSet shown you in Fig 10, the dashed line presents the first run of 5 cases. We found that the original-checkpoint  used  654  seconds,  while Spark-flow used 585 seconds. So, Spark-flow is 11% 
faster  than  the  original  one.  But  DTC  with  the DTC-Parquet-MD5 configuration, it used 595 seconds, 9%  faster  than  original-checkpoint.  However,  in 
the second run of 5 cases after restarting the JVM, as the solid  line,  the  results  show  that  the original-checkpoint  used  697  seconds  and Spark-flow  used  545  seconds,  while  DTC  with  any configuration used just few seconds. 
Fig. 11 shows the results comparing between frameworks using  Triange  Counting  Program,  In  the  case  of  not applying hashing to the input data, we showed that in Fig 11 (a),  no-checkpoint,  original-checkpoint  and 
DTC used almost the same amount of time for the first runs. 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Copyright $Ò 2018 GiRI (Global IT Research Institute) 
ICACT Transactions on Advanced Communications Technology (TACT) Vol. 7, Issue 1, January 2018 
(a)   (b)  
Fig. 11. Comparison of checkpoint time of RDDs using the Triangle Counting program (5 cases with JVM termination) while (a) without hashing inputs and (b) with hashing inputs. 
(a)   (b)  
Fig. 12. Comparison of checkpoint time of RDDs using PageRank Program (5 cases with JVM termination) while (a) without hashing inputs and (b) with hashing inputs. 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Copyright $Ò 2018 GiRI (Global IT Research Institute) 
ICACT Transactions on Advanced Communications Technology (TACT) Vol. 7, Issue 1, January 2018 1090
For the second runs after restarting the JVM, we found the same trend  as  we  were  discussing  earlier.  DTC  with  all configurations could reduce time for testing to just a few seconds. Due to inputs were in the form of graph (vertices and  edges)  as  shown  in  Fig  11  (b),  the  underlying mechanism  of  the  Spark  Framework  tries  to  perform operations efficiently by casting the partition of the input to class  ShippableVertexPartition.  In  the  research  work reported in this paper, DTC does not import to support to read this kind of data type. Fig 11 (b) shows that DTC with all  configurations  could  not  help  reduce  time  much.  All frameworks use the same amount of time processing  the data.  
In Fig 12 shows the experimental results obtained from running the PageRank program. PageRank is a program that 
processes  graphs.  It  used  the  same  set  of  inputs  as  the previous experimental, Triangle Counting. In Fig 12 (a), it shows the results in the case of not applying hashing to the input data. We found that in the first testcase of the first run, the results of DTC with Java serialization, with either MD5  or  SHA1  as  the  hash  function,  used  204  seconds, while the original-checkpoint used 214 seconds. In 
this comparison, DTC could speed up by 4%. For the rest of testcases, times spent by DTC is cut down to just a few seconds. In Fig 12 (b), we also found the same problem as of the Triangle Counting program. This was the result of hashing input. 
Finally,  we  discuss  the  results  of  the  Pi  Estimation program.  In  Fig.  13,  we  showed  tenor  of  comparing frameworks. For the first testcase of the first run, we found 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Copyright $Ò 2018 GiRI (Global IT Research Institute) 
ICACT Transactions on Advanced Communications Technology (TACT) Vol. 7, Issue 1, January 2018 

(a)   (b)  
Fig. 13. Comparison of checkpoint time of RDDs using Pi Estimation Program (5 cases with JVM termination) while (a) without hashing inputs and (b) with hashing inputs. 

Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Copyright $Ò 2018 GiRI (Global IT Research Institute) 
ICACT Transactions on Advanced Communications Technology (TACT) Vol. 7, Issue 1, January 2018 1091
that without hashing inputs, the DTC-Kryo-SHA256 used 114  seconds,  while  the  original-checkpoint  used
135 seconds as shown in Fig 13 (a) DTC was 18% faster in this case. In the consequent testcases, DTC could cut the running time significantly. 
In case of hashing inputs, we found the same trend as shown  in  Fig  13  (b)  as  the  previous  results.  DTC  used processing  time  almost  the  same  as original-checkpoint  at  the  first  testcase  then dramatically  speed  up  by  using  only  a  few  seconds  for testing each testcase. Moreover, the DTC framework can be detected in case of random values, so that spark developers can reproduce the input which causes software is issues. 
V. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
The experimental results have obviously shown that DTC is suitable for improving productivity for unit testing in Big Data applications in terms of time consumption and storage usage. We can perform testing for Big Data either on a local or  a  cluster.  DTC  could  trace  change  in  testcases  with random values. Unfortunately, we found that DTC could work  well  in  case  of  graph  algorithms  such  as  Triangle Counting  or  PageRank  due  to  spark  framework  cast partition of an input to ShippableVertexPartition. So that one  of  limitation  the  DTC  is  input  datatype.  We  are researching in potential mechanisms which can be used for increasing  speed  of  testing  and  reducing  storage  usages such as cache and persist. The JVM configurations are ones of tuning parameter we  are  focusing.  These  subjects  are being studied.  
REFERENCES
This document was truncated here because it was created in the Evaluation Mode.
Evaluation Only. Created with Aspose.Words. Copyright 2003-2024 Aspose Pty Ltd.
Copyright $Ò 2018 GiRI (Global IT Research Institute) 
